From: Angelo Campanella
Newsgroups: alt.sci.physics.acoustics
Date: February, 2003

Welcome to the Usenet group on acoustics, which originated at
Columbus, Ohio, May 1995.

I know of no other public medium than Internet and its affiliates that
serves the purpose of global access and query on chosen subjects
successfully at present.

Genuine inquiries in acoustics are welcome.

But detailed repartee on simple problems such as speaker design
and amplified audio problems should be discussed elsewhere on hobby
groups, etc.

This alt.news group is intended for preliminary discussion on all
fields of acoustics as defined by the fields indicated by the Journal
of the Acoustical Society of America (see pages A38-A41 of the 1999
(light green) ASA membership directory.  For instance (all adjectives
preceding 'Acoustics'):

Architectural                  Machinery silencing
Bioresponse                    Physical
Engineering                    Psychological and Physiological
Musical                        Speech
Noise                          Structural
Noise Control                  Underwater &amp; Propagation


       ***********  INFORMAL BUT ESSENTIAL RULES  ****************

0. Consider this news group to be a "Hailing" channel where our first
   "Hello" is exchanged and knowledgeable respondents on any given
   question may emerge.

1. Our discussions should be brief, involving relatively short
   epistles.  A few screen loads usually suffice.

2. Avoid public repartee' that switches to smaller and smaller
   matters.  Private email is for that.  Rather, stick to main issues
   from which all of us will learn and also enjoy the benefits of this
   highly public medium.

3. Resist the temptation to author large treatises here.

4. When including a copy of the message to which you respond, ALWAYS
   DELETE ALL EXTRANEOUS, NON GERMANE LINES.  Leave only the few
   succinct lines that set the stage for your learned response.

5. AVOID quarrelsome and profane language.  Life's too short to waste
   on them.  Such outbursts also seriously detract from the
   credibility of the arguments and validity of the information
   presented.  (Profanities are often the result of frustration about
   a weak and unsupported position on a controversial subject.  Better
   to go back and check your facts, then argue enlightened and
   refreshed.)

6. AVOID making slanderous and defamatory comments.

In these ways, we will all truly welcome and enjoy each other's
thoughts without the overhead burden of a moderated news group
administrating via exhaustive screening.

7. Also, brief "Jobs Available" or "Help Needed" postings may be welcome in this 
continuing period of economic malaise..

                     ...-.-    Ang. Campanella  (Penn State Ph.D. '55)


Note: Some comments have suggested that this news group should spawn a
conventional or moderated acoustics News Group.  To date, no
compelling rationale to do so has emerged.  No volunteers to support
the ongoing effort that would be required have evolved.

In reviewing the tenets for moderated news groups formation, a key
caveat seems to me to be that the decision whether or not to form a
news group on a given machine rests with the administrator of a server
or large organization.  Thus, the need for group formation needs to be
generated ultimately somewhere by one or more of us on a local basis.

To date, it has been sufficient to barely publicize the existence of
alt.sci.physics.acoustics.  News group search engines now easily
identify it via a subject search on "acoustics".

Newcomers may enjoy the Acoustics FAQ, devised and generated solely by 
participants in this news group several years ago, and now posted at
http://www.campanellaacoustics.com/faq.html#basic

Enjoy!

Angelo Campanella

"I have simply studied carefully whatever I've undertaken, and tried to hold a 
reserve that would carry me through." - Charles A.  
