From: Randy J. Jost
Date: 26 April 1994

Greetings to all!

After much delay, here is the first offering of the FAQ for
sci.physics.electromag.  Please feel free to critique it, criticize,
complain, suggest, add, subtract, praise, pan, whatever, just send us
your input.

Randy


*************************   FAQ follows  **********************************




              SCI.PHYSICS.ELECTROMAG Frequently Asked Questions

Welcome to the sci.physics.electromag Frequently Asked Question (FAQ)
file.  This is the initial version of the FAQ; hence it has some holes
and areas where input is needed.

Once this FAQ becomes stable, we will post it on a monthly basis.
Until then, this list will be making more frequent appearances, as
additional information is added.  Because of limitations in certain
mailers, it has been split into multiple parts.  That way, it should
travel through all the Internet gateways, and be readable by almost
any news reader/email software without any trouble.

If you have other topics that you think should receive FAQ status, want to 
submit a FAQ and answer, or have additional information on an existing FAQ, 
please contact either of the following individuals:

Dr. Todd Hubing          ( thubing@ee.umr.edu )
Dr. Randy J. Jost        ( jost@washpost.wdc.sri.com )

We have intentionally left some topics unfinished, partly to get this
out to the group, but also to encourage other people to contribute
their ideas and thoughts.  Please feel free to add more to this.  It
will only be as good as the input that goes into it.

CONTRIBUTORS

Several individuals submitted suggestions and contributions which went into 
the creation of this FAQ.  Among these are:


Raymond Anderson          raymonda@uranium.ebay.sun.com
Weston Beal               weston.beal@sun.com
Allen Davidson            casr04@email.mot.com
Jeff Haferman             haferman@icaen.uiowa.edu
Chuck Harrison            73770.1337@compuserve.com
Todd Hubing               thubing@ee.umr.edu
Randy Jost                jost@washpost.wdc.sri.com
Gian Luigi Gragnani       gragnani@dibe.unige.it
Dave Michelson            davem@ee.ubc.ca
John Moulder              jmoulder@post.its.mcw.edu
Robert Perry              perry@mimicad.colorado.edu
Al Wong                   eunos@mercury.sfsu.edu


---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS

Part 1/2
1. FAQ ADMINISTRATION
2. EM REFERENCES
3. EM THEORY ISSUES

Part 2/2
4. COMPUTER MODELING 
5. BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS
6. HISTORY OF ELECTROMAGNETICS



FAQ ADMINISTRATION

[1.0] What is sci.physics.electromag all about?

The sci.physics.electromag charter is given as:

Sci.physics.electromag will be dedicated to the discussion of topics 
pertaining to electromagnetics.  These include, but are not limited to:

  electromagnetic wave theory           computational EM modeling
  microwave devices and circuits        antenna design
  electromagnetic interference          biological effects
  ELF and VLF fields                    EM measurements
  wave propagation                      shielding
  electrostatic discharge               new RF devices and technology


[1.1] How do I post and/or receive to sci.physics.electromag?

    There are two ways to post to sci.physics.electromag.  One way is to use 
a news reader program.  The other way is to post e-mail to the group by 
sending articles to:
    sci.physics.electromag.usenet@decwrl.dec.com
Everything else, such as title, and message text should be done as per a 
normal email message.
     To receive the posts from sci.physics.electromag, presently you must 
use some type of news reader software that will allow you to subscribe to the 
newsgroup.  We are currently investigating other ways to get the contents of 
sci.physics.electromag to those who do not have access to the USENET 
newsgroups.

It is possible to read newsgroup articles by gopher server. This can be of 
benefit if a local new-server has died.  There are several gopher sites that 
allow users to read newsgroups. One of them is, 

gopher commsun.its.csiro.au (gopher 152.83.8.2)

When a menu shows up, chose the following options :-

5.  USENET News - Internet Bulletin Board/
48. sci             /
73. physics         /
3.  electromag      /

(Presently accessible from anywhere/anytime)


[1.2] Is there an ftp site dedicated to sci.physics.electromag?

Work is in progress on setting up a site, but is as yet, not ready.
Still in the category of "Coming soon to a computer near you!"



EM REFERENCE

[2.1] What organizations, groups, or societies are oriented towards
electromagnetics?

Applied Computational Electromagnetics Society (ACES)
This organization is oriented toward the computational aspects of 
electromagnetics.  For information on becoming a member of ACES, contact Dr. 
Richard W. Adler, ECE Department, Code EC/AB, Naval Postgraduate School, 833 
Dyer Rd., Rm 437, Monterey, CA 93943-5121, USA;  Telephone: (408) 646-1111;  
Fax: (408) 646-0300;  E-mail: 5541304@mcimail.com.

Bioelectromagnetics Society (BEMS)
For information, contact the society at the following address:
120 West Church Street, Frederick, MD 21701, USA;  Telephone: (301) 
663-4252;  Fax: (301) 663-0043.

Computer Applications in Electromagnetic Education (CAEME)
This is an organization of industries and universities who support the 
development of computational tools for EM education applications.  For more 
information contact Dr. Magdy Iskander, CAEME Director, Electrical 
Engineering Department, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT  84112. 

Electromagnetics Society (EMS)

European Bioelectromagnetics Association (EBEA)
This organization groups together many European as well as non-European 
researchers involved in both low and high frequency interactions.  For 
additional information, contact its president:  Guglielmo D'Inzeo; Dept. of 
Electronic Engineering; "La Sapienza" University of Rome; Via Eudossiana 18; 
00184 Roma, Italy;  Telephone: + 39 6 44585853;  Fax: + 39 6 4742647;  
E-mail:  dinzeo@tce.ing.uniromal.it.

Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
The largest professional organization in the world, IEEE has several 
societies that are oriented towards electromagnetics.  Chief among these are 
the Antennas & Propagation, Electromagnetic Compatibility, Microwave Theory 
& Techniques, Magnetics, Nuclear Science & Plasma Science.  For information 
contact the IEEE at: Customer Service, 445 Hoes Lane, PO Box 1331, 
Piscataway, New Jersey, 08855-1331, USA;  Telephone: 908-981-0060;  Fax 
908-981-9667;  E-mail: member.services@ieee.org.

Any overseas groups that should be included here would be especially 
helpful.


[2.2] What are good ftp/gopher/www sites to obtain EM related
software, freeware or shareware?  Are there other discussion lists for
emag-related topics?  What are they?

The following ftp sites are known to contain electromagnetics related files:

Address                    Directory         Contents
-------                    ---------         --------

ftp.netcom.com            /pub/rander/NEC    NEC (Numerical Electromagnetics
(IP Address           )                          Code) archive

microwave.jpl.nasa.gov                       EMlib files
(IP Address 128.149.76.31)

emclab.ee.umr.edu            /pub/aces       ACES files, misc.
(IP Address 131.151.8.246)   /pub/ieee       IEEE EMC Society Ed. Comm.
                                                  files

If you know of other sites, please send the site name, IP address,
where in the directory the files are located, and a brief description
of contents.


The following are other electromagnetics related mailing lists known to 
exist:

NEClist is an internet mailing list devoted to the Numerical
Electromagnetics Code and its various incarnations.  Participants
include developers and users of NEC-derived codes.  If you would like
to join, send a message with your name and e-mail address in the text
to Dave Michelson: davem@ee.ubc.ca.  If you want to post a message,
just send it to: nec-list@ee.ubc.ca.

There is a BITNET list, EMFLDS-L (Electromagnetics in Medicine,
Science & Communications) which is devoted to the applications of
electromagnetics in the indicated areas.  To subscribe, send the
message "SIGNON EMFLDS-L" to the address LISTSERV@UBVM.BITNET (or
LISTSERV@UBVM.CC.BUFFALO.EDU).  When posting messages to this list,
just send mail to the address "EMFLDS-L@UBVM.CC.BUFFALO.EDU".  Archive
files are also available and information on how to obtain them is
included in the welcome message you receive after signing on.


[2.3] What are good text/reference books on EM at the beginning,
intermediate, and advanced levels?  What other books should be on the
shelf of the practising electromagneticist?

Asking people's opinions on selecting an electromagnetics textbook for
study is somewhat akin to asking about religion.  Everyone has an
opinion, and they can get quite incensed about the situation if you
don't see things their way.  Notwithstanding the potential pitfalls of
offering an opinion, the following texts all have something to offer.
The separation between beginning, intermediate and advanced is
somewhat arbitrary.  All entries will be considered, and if you offer
a candidate for the list, please include a couple of reasons why you
think the book deserves to be included.  Eventually, it would be nice
to have these selections annotated with their strengths and
weaknesses.  Although these are mostly favorites of mine (Jost), they
should serve almost anyone in good stead.  I'm afraid my engineering
background is probably showing through, but I trust the many
physicists in the group will show me the light.  Remember, your
mileage may vary!

Beginning Level
Cheng, D.K. "Fundamentals of Engineering Electromagnetics, 2nd ed.,"
   Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1993.
Kraus, J.D., "Electromagnetics, 4th ed.," McGraw-Hill, 1992.
Zahn, M., "Electromagnetic Field Theory: A Problem Solving Approach," Wiley
   & Sons, New York, 1979.

Intermediate Level
Balanis, C. "Advanced Engineering Electromagnetics," Wiley, 1989.
Collin, R.E. "Field Theory of Guided Waves, 2nd Ed," IEEE Press, 1991.
Harrington, R.F., "Time-Harmonic Electromagnetic Fields," McGraw-Hill, 1961.
Jordan, E.C. and K.G. Balmain, "Electromagnetic Waves and Radiating
   Systems," 2nd ed., Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1968.

Advanced Level
Jackson, J.D. "Classical Electrodynamics, 2nd ed.," Wiley, 1975.
Jones, D.S. "The Theory of Electromagnetism," Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1964.
Landau, L.D. and E.M. Lifshitz, "The Classical Theory of Fields," 3rd. 
revised English edition, Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA, 1971.
__________, "Electrodynamics of Continuous Media," Addison-Wesley, Reading,
   MA, 1960.
Smythe, W.R. Static and Dynamic Electricity, 3rd ed., revised printing" 
   Hemisphere Publishing Corporation, 1989.
Sommerfeld, A. "Electrodynamics," Academic Press, New York, 1952.
Stratton, J.A., "Electromagnetic Theory," McGraw-Hill, 1941.

"Applied" Texts
Balanis, C.A. "Antenna Theory," Wiley, 1982.
Collin, R.E. "Field Theory of Guided Waves," 2nd ed., IEEE Press, 1991.
Kraus, J.D. "Antennas, 2nd ed.," McGraw-Hill, 1988.
Ramo, S., J.R. Whinnery, and T. Van Duzer, "Fields and Waves in
   Communication Electronics," 2nd ed., Wiley & Sons, New York, 1984.
Stutzman, W.L. & G.A. Thiele, "Antenna Theory and Design," Wiley & Sons,
  1981.

Mathematical Texts
Abramowitz, M. and I.A. Stegun, eds., "Handbook of Mathematical Functions,"
   U.S. National Bureau of Standards, (1964), also Dover, New York 1965.
Courant, R. and D. Hilbert, "Methods of Mathematical Physics," 2 vols.,
   Wiley-Interscience, New York (1962).
Gradshteyn, I.S. and I.M. Ryzhik, "Table of Integrals, Series, and
   Products," 4th ed., prepared by Yu. V. Geronimus and M. Yu. Tseytlin,
   corrected and enlarged edition, translated by Alan Jeffrey, 1980.
Morse, P.M. and H. Feshbach, "Methods of Theoretical Physics," 2 vols.,
   McGraw-Hill, New York, 1953.
Sommerfeld, A. "Partial Differential Equations," Academic Press, New York,
   1949.

Miscellaneous Texts
Maxwell, J.C. "Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism,"3rd ed. (1891), 2
   vols., reprinted by Dover, New York, 1954.


[2.4] What are the units of electromagnetics?  Does anybody really use
esu or emu units?

When carrying out electromagnetic calculations, there are several
systems of units that are available.  To simplify matters greatly
though, they can be broken into two groups: the MKSA
(meter-kilogram-second-ampere) system and the CGS
(centimeter-gram-second) system.  Another factor to consider is
whether the units have been "rationalized" or not.  By "rationalized",
we mean that the factor 4pi (where pi=3.14159265...) does not appear
in what are commonly called "Maxwell's Equations".  Rationalization
does not eliminate the factor of 4pi, rather it changes where the
factor will show up.

These days, most engineering work is done with rationalized MKSA
units.  What is known as the Gaussian system, is an unrationalized CGS
system, that is mixed in the sense that electric quantities are
measured in "electrostatic" units, while magnetic quantities are
measured in "electromagnetic" units.  Finally, the Heaviside-Lorentz
system is a rationalized Gaussian system.  The various CGS systems are
used mainly in the area of physics, where certain simplifications in
formulas result with the use of CGS units.

For additional information, see one of the following sources:
Jackson, J.D. "Classical Electrodynamics," 2nd ed., Wiley, 1975.
Wangsness, R.K. "Electromagnetic Fields," 2nd ed., Wiley, 1986.
Smythe, W.R. Static and Dynamic Electricity, 3rd ed., revised
printing" Hemisphere Publishing Corporation, 1989.


[2.5] Is there a standard way of writing the various vectors operators
for electromagnetics operations?

I'd really like to hear people's thoughts on this issue.  The next
edition of the FAQ will be having equations in it, and it would be
nice to incorporate them in a form with which the largest number of
people are comfortable.  Some questions to consider are, should vector
operators be spelled out?, Should only E and H be used to describe
Maxwell's equations?  What form (units) would be most comfortable to
most people.  Being an engineer, you know what my vote will be.


EM THEORY ISSUES

[3.0] What are Maxwell's Equations?

Maxwell's Equations can be thought of in many different ways.
Mathematically, they represent a set of partial differential
equations.  Physically, they are a set of equations that describe the
relationships between electric and magnetic fields.  Historically,
they may represent one of the major intellectual achievements in the
area of physics.

Just a few phrases to start someone off.  Looking for a good
exposition of what Maxwell's Equations are all about.  If we don't get
any takers, you'll have to deal with our "purple prose".

[3.1] Are Maxwell's Equations good under all circumstances?  Under
what circumstances are they "invalid"?

This is someone's chance to wax poetic about linearity, high fields
and relativity.

COMPUTER MODELING 

[4.0] What commercial and/or non-commercial electromagnetic modeling
codes are available?

Non-commercial codes:

Numerical Electromagnetics Code (NEC) - a moment method code that
models wires and PEC surface patches using a surface integral
technique.  EFIE is employed for wire modeling and MFIE for surface
patch modeling. NEC2 is available from ftp.netcom.com is the
/pub/rander/NEC directory.

Discrete-Dipole Approximation Code (DDA) - Written by Drain and
Flatau, available by anonymous ftp at astro.princeton.edu in the
directory /draine/scat/ddscat/ver4b/ddscat4b.tar.Z.

Electromagnetic Surface Patch Code (ESPII) - a moment method code that
models wires and PEC surface patches using a surface integral (EFIE)
technique.  Available from Dr. Edward H. Newman, ElectroScience
Laboratory, Ohio State University, 1320 Kinnear Rd, Columbus, OH
43212.

Penn State FDTD code - a public domain FDTD code developed by
R. Luebbers and K. Kunz that is described in their book "The Finite
Difference Time Domain Method for Electromagnetics" CRC Press.  Code
is available from the emclab.ee.umr.edu ftp site in the directory
/pub/aces/fdtd.

ElectroMagnetic Analysis Program (EMAP2) - a 3D finite element
modeling code available from the emclab.ee.umr.edu ftp site in the
directory /pub/emap.

Mie Scattering Code (MIEV) - a publicly available code that computes
many of the quantities involved in electromagnetic scattering from a
homogeneous sphere.  The code can be found at the following sites:
climate.gsfc.nasa.gov in subdirectory /pub/wiscombe or at
sunsite.unc.edu in /pub/academic/physics/Electro-mag/miev.tar


Commercial codes:

Maxwell 2D & 3D - Finite element modeling codes available from AnSoft
Corporation 412-261-3200.

MSC EMAS - 3D finite element modeling software from MacNeal-Schwendler
Corporation (414) 357-8723.

EESoft - Moment method software for analyzing microstrip & MIMIC
circuit configurations.  (818) 991-7530

HFSS - Moment method software for analyzing microstrip & MIMIC circuit
configurations.  Available from Hewlett Packard (415) 964-2456.


[4.1] What is the "best" (numerical, analytical) method to compute EM
interactions with objects?

The answer to this question depends to a great extent on the
particular problem that is to be analyzed.  Analytical methods are
very good at analyzing certain problems with a high degree of symmetry
and they can provide a great deal of insight into the behavior of many
configurations.  But an accurate evaluation of most realistic
electromagnetic configurations requires a numerical approach.

Numerical techniques based on the method of weighted residuals are
called moment methods.  EM modelers have come to use the term "moment
method" synonymously with "surface integral technique" even though the
method of weighted residuals can be applied to differential equations
as well as integral equations.  In general, moment method techniques
do an excellent job of analyzing unbounded radiation problems and they
excel at analyzing PEC (perfect electric conductor) configurations and
homogeneous dielectrics.  They are not well-suited to the analysis of
complex inhomogeneous geometries.

Finite element techniques require the entire volume of the
configuration to be meshed, as opposed to surface integral techniques,
which only require the surfaces to be meshed.  Even so, each mesh
element may have completely different material properties from those
of neighboring elements.  In general, finite element techniques excel
at modeling complex inhomogeneous configurations.  But they do
not model unbounded radiation problems as effectively as moment method
techniques.

Finite difference time domain (FDTD) techniques also require the
entire volume to be meshed.  Normally, this mesh must be uniform, so
that the mesh density is determined by the smallest detail of the
configuration.  Unlike most finite element and moment method
techniques, FDTD techniques work in the time domain.  This makes them
very well-suited to transient analysis problems.  Like the finite
element method, FDTD methods are very good at modeling complex
inhomogeneous configurations.  Also, many FDTD implementations do a
better job of modeling unbounded problems than finite element modeling
codes.  As a result, FDTD techniques are often the method of choice
for modeling unbounded complex inhomogeneous geometries.



BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS

[5.0] Is there any truth to the statements that low level electric and
magnetic fields are harmful to humans?

Most of the concern about power-frequency fields and human health
stems from epidemiological studies of people living near power lines or
working in "electrical occupations".  Some of these studies appear to
show a relationship between exposure to power-frequency magnetic
fields and the incidence of cancer and birth defects.  Laboratory
studies have shown little evidence of a link between power-frequency
fields and either cancer or birth defects.

[5.1] How do the biological effects of power-frequency electromagnetic
[EM] sources differ from those of other EM sources?

The interaction of biological material with an EM source depends on
the frequency of the source.  At the very high frequencies
characteristic of UV light and X-rays, EM particles (photons) have
sufficient energy to break (ionize) chemical bonds.  The well-known
hazards of X-rays are associated with this ionization.  At lower
frequencies, such as those characteristic of visible light, RF, and
MW, the photons do not carry enough energy to break chemical bonds;
this is the non-ionizing portion of the EM spectrum.  Because EM
sources at non-ionizing frequencies cannot break chemical bonds, there
is no analogy between the biological effects of ionizing and
non-ionizing EM energy.

Non-ionizing EM sources can still produce biological effects.  The
electrical fields associated with the power-frequency fields have very
little ability to penetrate buildings or even skin.  Even so, exposure
of people to power-frequency magnetic fields results in the induction
of electrical currents in the body.  If these currents are
sufficiently intense, they can cause heating, nerve excitation and
other effects.  At power frequencies, the body is poorly coupled to
external fields, and the induced currents are usually too small to
produce obvious effects.  Shocks, and other obvious effects usually
require that the body actually touch a conductive objects, allowing
current to pass directly into the body.

[5.2] What sort of power-frequency fields are common in residences and
workplaces?

In the US, magnetic fields are commonly measured in gauss (G).  In
most of the rest of the world, they are measured in tesla (T), where
10,000 G equals 1 T (1 G = 100 microT).  Electric fields are measured
in volts/meter (V/m).

Within the right-of-way (ROW) of a high-voltage (115-765 kV)
transmission line, fields can approach 100 mG (10 microT) and 10,000
V/m.  At the edge of a high-voltage transmission ROW, the field will
be 1-10 mG (0.1-1.0 microT) and 100-1,000 V/m.  Ten meters from a 12
kV distribution line fields will be 2-10 mG (0.2-1.0 microT) and 2-20
V/m.  Actual fields depend on voltage, design and current.

Fields within residences vary from over 1000 mG (100 microT) and 200
V/m a few inches (cm) from certain appliances to less than 0.2 mG
(0.02 microT) and 2 V/m in the center of some rooms.  Appliance fields
decrease very rapidly with distance.

Occupational exposures in excess of 1000 mG (100 microT) and 5000
V/m. have been reported.  In "electrical" occupations typical mean
fields range from 5 to 40 mG (0.5 to 4 microT) and 100-2000 V/m.

[5.3] What is known about the relationship between power line corridors
and cancer rates?

Some studies have shown that children living near certain types of
power lines have higher rates of cancer, particularly leukemia and
brain cancers, but other studies have shown no such relationship. The
correlation between exposure and cancer incidence is not strong, and
none of the studies have shown dose-response relationships.  When
power-frequency fields are actually measured, no relationship is
found.  With one exception, all studies of correlations between adult
cancer and residence near power lines have been negative.

The excess cancer found in epidemiological studies is quantified as
relative risk (RR) -- the risk of an "exposed" person getting cancer
divided by the risk of an "unexposed" person getting cancer.  RRs are
generally given with 95% confidence intervals. An overview of the
epidemiology requires that studies be combined using a technique known
as "meta-analysis".  Meta-analysis indicates the following RRs for
residence near power lines (with 95% CIs): childhood leukemia: 1.5
(0.8-3.0) childhood brain cancer: 1.9 (0.9-3.0) childhood lymphoma:
2.5 (0.3-40) all childhood cancer: 1.5 (0.9-2.5) adult leukemia: 1.1
(0.8-1.6) adult brain cancer: 0.7 (0.4-1.3) all adult cancer: 1.1
(0.9-1.3)

[5.4] What is known about the relationship between "electrical
occupations" and cancer rates?

Several studies have shown that people who work in electrical
occupations have higher cancer rates, particularly for leukemia and
brain cancer.  Most of these studies are based on job titles, not on
measured exposures.  None of these studies show a dose-response
relationship between exposure and cancer incidence.

Meta-analysis indicates the following RR for occupational exposure for
power-frequency fields (with 95% CIs):
leukemia:   1.20 (1.0-1.4)
brain:      1.10 (0.9-1.3)
lymphoma:   1.15 (0.9-1.8)
all cancer: 1.00 (0.9-1.1)

[5.5] What do laboratory studies tell us about power-frequency fields
and cancer?

Carcinogens, agents that cause cancer, are generally of two types:
genotoxins and promoters.  Genotoxic agents (often called initiators)
directly damage the genetic material of cells.  Genotoxins usually
effect all types of cells, cause many different types of cancer, and
do not have thresholds for their effect.  A promoter is something that
increases the cancer risk in animals already exposed to a genotoxin.
Promoters usually effect only certain types of cells, cause only
certain types of cancer, and have thresholds for their effect.

Power-frequency fields show none of the classic signs of being
genotoxins - they do not cause DNA damage or chromosome breaks, and
they are not mutagenic.  No studies have shown that animals exposed to
power-frequency fields have increased cancer rates. It has been
suggested that power-frequency EMFs could promote cancer, but all but
one study of promotion have shown no such effect.

There are substances (called mitogens) that cause non-growing normal
cells to start growing, and some mitogens appear to be carcinogens.
There are no studies that indicate that power-frequency fields are
mitogens, and with one possible exception no effects on cell growth
have been reported for fields below 2000 mG (200 microT).

Suppression of the immune system in animals and humans is associated
with increased rates of certain types of cancer (lymphomas, but not
leukemia or brain cancer).  Some studies have shown that
power-frequency fields can affect cells of the immune system, but no
studies have shown the type of immune suppression that is associated
with increased cancer.

It has also been speculated that power-frequency EM fields might
suppress the production of the hormone melatonin, and that melatonin
has "cancer-preventive" activity.  Current laboratory studies do not
provide much support for this idea.

While the laboratory evidence does not suggest a link between
power-frequency fields and cancer, numerous studies have reported that
these fields do have "bioeffects", particularly at high field
strength.  Power-frequency fields intense enough to induce electrical
currents in excess of those that occur naturally (above 5 G, 500
microT) have shown reproducible effects, including effects on humans.
Below about 2 G (200 microT) there are few replicated reports of
bioeffects.

[5.6] How do scientists evaluate all the laboratory and
epidemiological studies of power-frequency fields and cancer?

There are certain widely accepted criteria, the "Hill criteria", that
are weighed when assessing epidemiological and laboratory
studies. Under these criteria one examines the strength and
consistency of the association between exposure and risk, the evidence
for a dose-response relationship, the laboratory evidence, and the
biological plausibility.  These criteria are viewed as a whole; no
individual criterion is either necessary or sufficient for concluding
that there is a causal relationship between an exposure and a disease.

Overall, application of the Hill criteria shows that the current
evidence for a connection between power-frequency fields and cancer is
quite weak, because of the weakness and inconsistencies in the
epidemiological studies, combined with the lack of a dose-response
relationship in the human studies, and the negative laboratory
studies.  The current evidence for a connection between exposure to
power-frequency other types of human health hazards (including birth
defects) is even weaker.

[5.7] Are there exposure guidelines for power-frequency fields?

A number of governmental and professional organizations have developed
exposure guidelines.  These guidelines are based on keeping the body
currents induced by power-frequency EM fields to a level below the
naturally-occurring fields.  The most generally relevant are:

- National Radiation Protection Board (UK):
  50/60 Hz electrical field:  approx. 12,000 V/m and 1.5 mT (15 G)

- American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists:
  At 60 Hz: 1 mT (10 G); 0.1 mT (1 G) for pacemaker wearers

- International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection
     24 hr general public: 0.1 mT (1 G) and 5,000 V/m
     Short-term general public: 1 mT (10 G) and 10,000 V/m
     Occupational continuous: 0.5 mT (5 G) and 10,000 V/m
     Occupational short-term: 5 mT (50 G) and 30,000 V/m

[5.8] Where can I get more information about power-frequency fields
and human health?

This section for the FAQ sheet is drawn from a more extensive FAQ
sheet called "FAQs on Power-Frequency Fields and Cancer".  The latter
FAQ sheet covers the following topics:

- What is the difference between the EM energy associated with power
  lines and other forms of EM energy such as microwaves or x-rays?

- What is difference between EM radiation and EM fields, and do power
  lines produce radiation?

- How do EM sources produce biological effects, and why do different
  types of EM sources produce different biological effects??

- What sort of power-frequency fields are common in residences and
  workplaces, and can they be reduced?

- What is known about the relationship between power line corridors and
  cancer rates, and how close do you have to be to a power line to be
  considered exposed?

- What is known about the relationship between "electrical
  occupations" and cancer rates?

- What do laboratory studies tell us about power-frequency fields and
  cancer?  Are these fields genotoxic, do they enhance the effects of
  other genotoxic agents?  How do studies on cell growth, immune
  function, and melatonin relate to the question of cancer risk? Do
  power-frequency fields show any effects at all in laboratory
  studies?

- How do scientists evaluate all the laboratory and epidemiological
  studies of power-frequency magnetic fields and cancer? How strong
  and how consistent is the association between exposure and the risk
  of cancer, and is there a dose-response relationship? Is there
  laboratory evidence or a plausible biological mechanism for an
  association between exposure and the risk of cancer?

- If exposure to power-frequency magnetic fields does not explain
  studies which show increased cancer incidence, what other factors
  could?  Are there dose-assessment problems? Are there other cancer
  risk factors that could be causing a false association? Could the
  studies be biased by the methods used to select control groups or by
  publication bias?

- What is the strongest evidence for and against a connection between
  power-frequency fields and cancer, and what studies are needed to
  resolve the cancer-EMF issue?

- Is there any evidence that power-frequency fields could cause birth
  defects or any other human health problems

- Are there exposure guidelines for power-frequency fields?

- What effect do power lines have on property values?

- How are power-frequency magnetic fields measured?

"FAQs on Power-Frequency Fields and Cancer" also contain an annotated
bibliography covering: recent reviews of the biological and health
effects of power-frequency fields, epidemiology of residential and
occupational exposure to power-frequency fields, biophysics and
dosimetry of power-frequency fields, laboratory studies of
power-frequency fields that are directly or indirectly related to
cancer or reproductive toxicity, regulations and standards for
ionizing and non-ionizing electromagnetic sources.

[5.9] Where can I get "FAQs on Power-Frequency Fields and Cancer"?
 
The power lines-cancer-FAQ sheet is posted monthly to: sci.med.physics,
sci.answers and news.answers, and irregularly to
sci.physics.electromag.

The power lines-cancer-FAQ is also available by anonymous FTP from:
"rtfm.mit.edu", in directory:
/pub/usenet-by-group/news.answers/powerlines-cancer-FAQ Files: part1,
part2, part3, etc. . . .

and by e-mail from:
mailserver@rtfm.mit.edu

- to get you the directory indicating the names and number of parts
  and when there were last updated, send the following message
  send /pub/usenet-by-group/news.answers/powerlines-cancer-FAQ

- to get the current FAQ you would send the following message
   send /pub/usenet-by-group/news.answers/powerlines-cancer-FAQ/part1
   . . . 
   send /pub/usenet-by-group/news.answers/powerlines-cancer-FAQ/partn

Maintainer of power lines-cancer-FAQ
John Moulder (jmoulder@its.mcw.edu)         Voice: 414-266-4670
Radiation Biology Group                     FAX: 414-257-2466
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee



HISTORY OF ELECTROMAGNETICS

[6.0] The greatest contributor to the theory of electromagnetics was
(Maxwell, Heaviside, Tesla, ....) because ....

Undoubtedly, one of the greatest contributors to the science of
electromagnetics was James Clerk Maxwell (1831-1879).  In his classic
work, "Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism", (1873), he published
the first unified theory of electricity and magnetism, postulated that
light was electromagnetic in nature, that radiation should be possible
at other wavelengths, and basically founded the science of
electromagnetics.

But there were many other key players in the history of
electromagnetics, both before and after Maxwell.  It would be nice if
other individuals would contribute 1-2 paragraph descriptions of some
of these individuals.  It would be especially interesting if some
little known facts about these individuals could be included, making
them that much more real.  Ideally, individual who live in the
countries where these people were from would contribute, giving all a
perspective on who these giants were.  Some individuals to start with
would include:


   Name                      Dates
  ------                    -------

William Gilbert           1540--1603
Benjamin Franklin         1706--1790
Charles A. De Coulomb     1736--1806
Alessandro Volta          1745--1827
Andre Ampere              1775--1836
Karl F. Gauss             1777--1855
Hans C. Oersted           1777--1851
Georg S. Ohm              1787--1854
Michael Faraday           1791--1867
Joseph Henry              1797--1878
James P. Joule            1818--1889
James C. Maxwell          1831--1879
Thomas A. Edison          1847--1931
Nikola Tesla              1856--1943
Heinrich Hertz            1857--1894
Guglielmo Marconi         1874--1937
Albert Einstein           1879--1955


It would also be nice to establish an electromagnetics "time line" outlining 
when certain key events took place.


   Date              Event 
  ------            -------

1873                Publication of Treatise on Electricity and
                    Magnetism by James Clerk Maxwell, documenting the
                    essential unity between electricity and magnetism.


This is just a start on names, dates, and events.  Are there any other
students of the history of science out there?  If so, this is a good
place to provide some input.


--------------------------------------------------------------------

Dr. Randy J. Jost              Internet:  jost@washpost.wdc.sri.com
SRI International                 Phone:  703-247-8415
1611 N. Kent St.                    FAX:  703-247-8537
Arlington, VA  22209-2111

--------------------------------------------------------------------
