              HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
         Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

          HCO POLICY LETTER OF 25 FEBRUARY 1966

Remimeo
Exec Sec Hats
CO Sec Hat

                         HCO DIV
Legal Officer Hat        LRH Comm
LRH Comm Hat
Dist Sec Hat
Press Hat
Sect 5 Dept 3

                  ATTACKS ON SCIENTOLOGY
                   (Additional Pol Ltr)




Anyone proposing an investigation of or an "Enquiry" into
Scientology must receive this reply and no other proposal:

"We welcome an investigation into (Mental Healing or whoever is
attacking us) as we have begun one ourselves and find shocking evidence".

You can elaborate on the evidence we have found and lay it on
[illegible word] attacking the attackers only.

NEVER agree to an investigation of Scientology.  ONLY agree to an
investigation of the attackers.

This was the BIG error made in Victoria.  I okayed an Enquiry
into all mental healing.  I ordered evidence on psychiatric murders to be
collected.  Non-Compliance with these orders brought on the loss of
Melbourne and the law in Victoria against Scientology.  This was
the non-compliance that began it.  The original order I gave was
relayed as "we welcome an Enquiry into Scientology ...." or
it was changed to that in Melbourne.
                             2


This is correct procedure:

(1)  Spot who is attacking us.

(2)  Start Investigating them promptly for FELONIES or worse using our own
professionals, not outside agencies.

(3)  Double curve our reply by saying we welcome an investigation of them.

(4)  Start feeding lurid, blood, sex, crime actual evidence on the
attackers to the press.

Don't ever tamely submit to an investigation of us.  Make it rough,
rough on attackers all the way.

You can get "reasonable about it" and lose.  Sure we break no
laws.  Sure we have nothing to hide.  BUT attackers are simply an
anti-Scientology propaganda agency so far as we are concerned.  They
have proven they have no facts and will only lie no matter what they
discover.  So BANISH off ideas that any fair hearing is intended and
start our attack with their [illegible word].  Never wait.  Never
talk about us - only them.  Use their blood, sex, crime to get
headlines.  Don't use us .

I speak from 15 years of experience in this.  There has
never yet been an attacker who was not reeking with crime.
All we had to do was look for it and murder would come out.

They fear our Meter.  They fear freedom.  They fear the way we are
growing.  Why?

Because they have too much to hide.

When you use that rationale you win.  When you go dishwater and say
"We honest chickens just plain love to have you in the coup, Brer Fox."
we get clobbered.  The right response is, "We militant public defenders
of the freedom of the people, we want there Fox investigated for eating
Living chickens. M Shift the spotlight to them.  No matter how.  Do it!

You can elaborate on the formula.  Let's say some other branch of
government wants to investigate us via the press. Just apply the formula.

"We welcome a public enquiry into (that branch activity) as we have
begun to investigate their (------)."  It will always work.  It would have
worked on the U.S. F.D.A. when they first began five years ago in their
raid on D.C.  They run!  And that's all we want.


                      HOW TO STOP ATTACKS

The way we will eventually stop all attacks from here on out is by
processing the society as follows:

(1)  Locate a source of attack on us.

(2)  Investigate it.

(3)  Expose it with wide lurid publicity.

You see the same thing in a preclear.  He has a rotten spot in his
behavior.  He attacks the practitioner.  The spot is located on a meter.
It blows and the preclear relaxes.

Well this is just what is happening in the society.  We are a
practitioner to the society.  It has rotten spots in it. Those show up
in attacks on us.  We investigate and expose -the attack ceases.

We use investigators instead of E-Meters.  We use newspapers instead
of auditor reports.  But it's the same problem exactly.

So long as we neglect our role as auditor-to-the-society we will be
attacked.

Society is pretty crazy.  It's a raw jungle.  So it will take a lot
of work.  We must be willing to put in that work as a group or we'll be
knocked about.

Remember.  CHURCHES ARE LOOKED UPON AS REFORM GROUPS.

Therefore we must act like a reform group.

The way to seize the initiative is to use our own professionals to
investigate intensively parts of the society that may attack us.  Get an
ammunition locker full.  Be sure of our facts.  And then expose via the
press.

If we do this right, press, instead of trying to invent reasons to
attack us will [sic] start hanging around waiting for our next lurid
scoop.

We MUST convert from an attacked group to a reform group that
attacks rotten spots in the society.  We should not limit ourselves to
mental healing or our own line.  We should look for zones to investigate
and blow the lid off and become known as a mighty reform group.  We
object to slavery, oppression, torture, murder, perversion, crime,
political sin and anything that makes Man unfree.

The only error we can make is disperse our investigation. We do a
preliminary look, then we must select a target and
investigate it until we have the cold facts and then BANG, fire the salvo.

Don't worry about libel if our facts indicate rottenness. The last
thing that target will do is sue as then we would have a chance to prove
it in court, which they are terrified of our doing.

Remember - the only reason we are in trouble with the press or
governments is that we are not searching out and exposing rotten spots in
the society.  We must practice on the whole group called society.  If we
do not it will attack us just as a preclear will attack a Scientologist
that won't audit him.

To get wholly over to cause we must select targets, investigate and
expose before they attack us.

We have at this writing a long way to go.  But we might as well start
somewhere.  Begin by investigating any attacking group and expose the dead
bodies.  Then work on to our selecting the targets.

And that will handle it all.



                                  L. RON HUBBARD
LRH:nl:ldm
Copyright (c) 1966
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

