           OFFICE OF SPECIAL AFFAIRS NETWORK ORDER


OSA NW ORDER 15                               18 February 1988

OSA NW




                        _Confidential_

                      _BLACK_PROPAGANDA_


       (Originally written by LRH on 12 January 1972.
        Issued as an OSA NW Order on 18 February 1988.)




     Black propaganda is a covert communication of false data
intended to injure, impede or destroy the activity or life of
another person, group or nation, usually issued from a false
or removed source from the actual instigator.

     It is used heavily in "psychological warfare."

     It is a specialized technology of its own.

     It relies chiefly on the technique of "classification" of
another or a group or a nation as undesirable or evil.

     It has many counter weapons and is itself essentially
fragile because it is false.

     Dianetics, Scientology and myself for a very long time
have been subjected to a very standard black propaganda
campaign instigated by trained persons - the AMA in the US,
the British Psychological Association in Australia, the
National Association of Mental Health in England and
internationally.

     What is being attempted by black propagandists is to
_classify_ us firmly in the public mind by constant repetition
of certain words like "cult." The more we let such
propagandists do this, the more chance we give them, the more
opportunity they have.

     A black artist has to be carefully trained to do this and
I am suddenly quite interested in such fellows.  It isn't just
"the way things are written." Such are well trained
intelligence pros in the field of psychological warfare.

     Psychiatry today advises advertising and propaganda and
designed of course this campaign we have experienced.

     The subject is even touched on by Dr.  Thomas Szasz as a
psychiatric technique in his book _Ideology_and_Insanity_,
page 49, chapter 4, page 53 section IV, page 67 section IX
and his whole article "Psychiatric Classification as Personal
Restraint", page 190 of the same book.  Of these, page 53
section IV is the most interesting in application to this
subject of classification.

               "Classification is a social act.  The
          Classification of individuals or groups entails the
          participation of at least three different types of





Unpublished work: Copyright (c) 1987 L. Ron Hubbard Library
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

--page break--

OSA NWO 15                  -2-

          persons: Classifier, Classified, and a public
          called upon to accept or reject a particular
          classification."

     While Szasz is not using it as it applies to
psychological warfare (black propaganda) or advertising, it is
nevertheless a key point in psychiatric planning of any campaign.

     The AMA counts on this utterly.

     So this is their one trick.

     To cancel an enemy's chief weapon is in itself a part of
victory.

     To cease to be the effect of classification and become
in our turn the cause of it, the classifier, is to win the
propaganda game.

     Our propaganda is dirty but it is not black because it is
true.  Black propaganda is essentially false.

     We can do this trick by survey and attack.  As what is
attacked is already popularly evil, we become re-classified as
attackers and the enemy as bad hats as they're _for_ the evil
if they attack us.

     We won't be running a _black_ campaign as we deal in
truth.

     Black campaigns ARC break people since they depend on
false reports and are thus out-_R_.  Hence your dead agent
actions work.

     We just run propaganda campaigns.

     The objective is to be identified as attackers of
popularly considered evils.  This de-classifies us from former
labels.  It re-classifies our attackers as evil people.  Which
they are.

     In the book _Black_Boomerang_ by Sefton Delmer (1962)
published by Secker and Warburg, London, Delmer gives various
formulas of black propaganda used in WW II.  They used
_intelligence_ to get enough facts to run a convincing but
fake "German radio station" from England.

     Since WW II psychiatry has moved its techniques into
advertising and propaganda and the think of these is in the
Szasz references above.

     So we

     1) Seek to avoid opportunities for the enemy to classify
        us.

     2) Contest or expose any previous classification as
        false (dead agentry, etc.)

     3) Engage in a series of campaigns which confuse past
        classification,

     4) Achieve for ourselves a dominance in classifying
        ourselves and others.


--page break--

OSA NWO 15                  -3-


     Out of this strategic planning can come operating
policies and campaigns.






                                     L. RON HUBBARD
                                     Founder


                                     Adopted as official
                                     Church policy by
                                     CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY
                                     INTERNATIONAL


LRH:CSI:jk:ta:

