                     HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE

                  Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex 
Cen O Con        HCO POLICY LETTER OF 16 FEBRUARY, 1969 
Guardians Office 
PROs 
Intelligence

                           Confidential

                            ENEMY NAMES

(This is a Defense Paper written after 18 years of unprovoked attack
upon us.  Nothing in this paper advocates physical violence to any person)

By carefully watching press to see who is called upon by the press for
counter-opinions, one can work one's way easily toward the centre [sic] of
a hostile network.

The press is fed anti materials.  Although reporters do not disclose
their sources, their stories often do.

To get a hostile opinion, the reporter looks in the files to see who is
sending in hostile data and calls the person for comment.  This is a
training pattern developed from current "teachings" that all stories must
have conflicts, a press style set some time ago by "Paris Match".  They
think this is the basis of reader interest.  It isn't, but they think it is.

Thus by studying clippings you can find who has given them hostile data
earlier or to whom they are referred for hostile data.

By taking these hostile names one can then do a run-down on the person
or his connections or both.

As there are actually very few of these names they thereby (cross filing)
lead one to common denominators and one can locate attack sources.

It is wise to challenge such adverse commentators as routine
procedures.  A call by a local "housewives committee", etc. as to why they
are hostile to human rights or in favor of psychiatric butchery and getting
them in the press with it and with no mention of us is good PRO.

Intelligence data when gained, can be fed back to PRO for more
spectacular confrontations.

Intelligence uses the names for investigation, run back, cross filing.

PRO uses the hostile commentator to guide his own counter attacks.

The effect at the least is to shut the hostile people up.

This activity (investigate, press counter-attack such speakers) must
not be neglected.

We happen to be fortunate, if you call it that, that persons hostile
to Scientology usually have criminal backgrounds even when in public life. 
One doesn't always find these even when they exist but one at least finds
connections which are useful.

It is very sound strategy never to fight a battle on your own
territory or subject or even on the territory of an ally.  Always fight
battles in enemy territory.

Therefore do exposes of such people in the area of their subjects or
interest, not bringing us or any real ally into it.

For instance, all these years, the enemies of Scientology had
real dead bodies lying all over the place.  But we defended on our
own ground.  

We have begun to fight on his terrain.  Let's keep it that way.

Use "counter opinion" names as investigation subjects, find their
terrain, find the crimes on it and attack on that terrain and the enemy,
not ourselves, will be in trouble.


                                        L. RON HUBBARD
                                          Founder

LRH:bw 
Copyright (c) 1969 
by L. RON HUBBARD ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

