                           OPS OFFICER

Ops Officer is responsible for the planning, researching and
carrying out of ops (planned and put together locally and
approved by US Ops or sent down from US).

This includes coordination with Coll Off as to ongoing hot
areas and close comm with Br I dir as to areas needing Ops
planned for them.

Responsibility extends to the following areas:

1.  ENSURING THAT WITHOUT QUESTION OR ANY RESERVATION THAT
NOTHING DONE IN THE OPS AREA BOUNCE BACK AT THE CHURCH OR
PUT THE CHURCH IN ANY JEOPARDY.

2.  Ensure that needed security precautions are kept
in regarding clean (no fingerprint materials) so that
source cannot be traced on ops.

3.  Hat sufficient FSMs to carry out the bulk of routine
ops work (typing and stuffing of envelopes).

4.  Hat personnel or carry out needed surveys and research
for ops or have research done by Coll Off as coordinated
by Br I Dir.

5.  Have a safe place to store ops materials and maintain
an adequate supply of clean material and instruments
(ops typewriter, etc.)

6.  Take the time to do ops right.  It's worth it to do
it right and not cut corners.


Operative wants to "have an affair" with Wog. Give
good R-factor on exact position FSM would be putting
self in regarding [missing word] of maintaining security
and never disseminating to wog and being on constant withold,
on never being able to tell and make it clear that this is
the case.

Then put it to FSM -- if you can handle it go ahead, watch
for any bad indicators and check this area in casual conversation
frequently.  Ex.  How's it going with Bill?

    Make sure that FSM [is] able to talk with you about most
anything (high ARC level ensures this).  Do not make FSM
feel wrong or inadequate, etc.  Let them know that they are
doing a hard thankless type work and are appreciated and
valued, etc.

As a standing rule only handle to [the] point that FSM [is]
capable of handling for self.  Handle toward this.  Ex:
rollercoastering -- check for PTS and if SP located, work
with FSM on handling he or she can do.  Ex: running
around with several men and no time for work, production
down -- find out why not producing.  Let FSM know that
running around with men [is] detracting from
work and that if she wants to do this it is her business
so long as she produces and that it doesn't interfere.

I have had several instances of FSM/wog 2 d activity.
They have resolved with R-factor on exactly what situation
is and probable results.  FSM dropped wog. Had one case of
FSM caving in on relationship with married wog -- found on
inspection to be PTS 1 to person at evening job --problem
not with married wog at all-person could handle this.

If at all possible arrange auditing for your people.

Make sure that you stay in comm with people (minimum of
one meeting together a week.)

Best way to arrange meetings is to set up next meeting
at current one -- this eliminates phone calls which can
be tapped and enables good scheduling.

Simple phone codes can be used for signaling as needed.

CO must communicate to operative that CO is out for
operative and will do all possible to protect and take
care of operative.

Best way to judge operatives is by their production.

Best way to run area is to get competent people and put
them on job, brief them, let them get on with it, debug as
needed and when they do well let them know.  Extensive
management not needed if competent well-briefed operatives
there.

Let them propose solutions to problems, etc.

Best is plan ahead regarding FSM leaving [the] job to
ensure that FSM replaces self -- work with to ensure this.

[illegible word] FSMs are volunteers and doing it because
they are dedicated and want to.  I try to keep ordering
at a minimum and simple requests at maximum.  Then a
simple request has effect of anorder -- they just do it
because they want to.

If you can't tell FSM something -- let him or her know that.

If you can't do that -- lie well.

One particular occupational hazard is that you are training
these people to lie well, deceive, be tricky.  There will
often be a certain point where probably just out of
cockiness or because it appears to be a workable operating
basis they will try this with you .

You better be sharper and just let them know that it's good to be
clever and all, but not with you.

Better to have them tell you that they decided to go
fishing instead of working and ask this and say -- well
now I want you to get me the file than to chop them for
this so that they will try and put by some sort of story the
next time instead of telling you about fishing.

If you listen, repeat objective and let them know that
you need and want [illegible word] and so do they, next
time they won't go fishing, or if they do there is a sit
to be unraveled.

For some of [the] finer points on dead drops, etc., see
Spy and Masters or Pridhkov in the Pentkovsky papers.

