--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Thetan Summary and Analysis
1st edition
Copyright 1995 by Michael Robinson (all rights reserved)
This document may be reproduced and distributed for non-commercial 
educational purposes.


Introduction

In early August, 1995, an electronic version of the document known as the 
Fishman Declaration became widely available on the Internet.  Because 
this court record contained information jealously guarded by 
Scientology(tm) organizations, it became the immediate focus of a great 
deal of interest and controversy.

This information consisted of course materials written by L. Ron Hubbard 
for a program to transform an individual into a Being with super-human 
powers, known as an Operating Thetan, or OT.  A multitude of people have 
obtained copies of this material, because of the controversy it has 
engendered, and the number of very important related issues that have 
been raised.

However, to a person who has not been trained in the communications 
technology of Scientology(tm), L. Ron Hubbard's style of writing may seem 
poorly structured, tedious, repetitive, and generally unpleasant to 
read.  As a result, many persons who have obtained copies have found 
themselves unable to persevere through the entire material.

I have created this summary and analysis of the OT materials to aid 
precisely those persons who feel it is important to keep apprised of the 
issues in this controversy, but have found the OT materials themselves 
too burdensome.  I have restructured much of the material for content, 
rather than process.  I have eliminated a large amount of redundant and 
uninteresting material.  And, finally, I have rewritten the material in 
a style which I hope is more conducive to casual reading.

My hope for this Summary and Analysis is that unindoctrinated readers 
will be able to get a grasp of all the salient content of the OT 
materials, and will thus be able to arrive at a more informed opinion
of relevant controversies.

I welcome any comments or suggestions for future editions.  I request 
that any excerpts of this work be attributed, and retain the copyright 
notice.  Thank you for your cooperation.

                                        Michael Robinson
                                        mrbnsn@public.bta.net.cn



Operating Thetan Level One

The first level of the Operating Thetan series actually contains three 
separate exercises issued by L. Ron Hubbard at various times.  
Curiously, Level One appears to become less ambitious in scope over 
time.

The original Level One requires that one locate every overt and
motivator lifetime for the previous 3000 years, as well as the
"postulate" for each, with the use of an E-Meter.  A detailed chart 
including dates, identities, etc. is plotted for the entire 3000 years.

The second version of Level One starts with the entire 15 steps of 
Route I from "Creation of Human Ability".  After the entire lifetime is 
scanned out to a floating needle, the pre-OT practices creating and 
dissipating a reactive mind by use of the postulate "I have mass".

The final version of Level One consists of nothing other than "running" 
the command "Spot a Person" until "cognition".  This is to be done 
outdoors.

It is not clear what relation, if any, there is between the original and 
final version of Level One.


Operating Thetan Level Two

(A note is prepended indicating that Level Two is to be performed
in accordance with the instructions in the Clearing Course Instruction 
Booklet)

The purpose of Level Two is to run ten complete whole track tables,
each containing a set of GPM (Goals Problems Mass).  Each set is 
run separately.

The GPM found in each set are as follows:  ELECTRICAL, TOCKY, BIG
BEING, HOUSE, PSYCHO, BANKY, FORERUNNER, BASIC-BASIC, BASIC, THE 
COMMAND, LOWER LP, LP, and BODY GPM.  In addition to these GPM, there 
are a number of Implant Incidents which have no line plot, as follows: 
THE ARROW, DOUBLE ROD, WOMAN, WHITE BLACK SPHERE, HOT COLD, LAUGHTER 
CALM, and DANCE MOB.

The GPM in these "whole track tables" are supposedly the residual mass
of incidents that happened untold numbers of lifetimes ago to the
individual's immortal "thetan".  Approximate dates for each of the
incidents are provided, although some, such as "about trillions 214th
Power years ago" for the BASIC BASIC GPM, challenge credulity
regardless.

The version of Level Two reproduced in the Fishman Declaration is 
incomplete.  A summary of the available GPM follows:


ELECTRICAL

The purpose of the ELECTRICAL GPM was to "CONVINCE a thetan he should 
think of himself as an electrical being".  Thus, the end word of the 
permutation is not a word, but a shock.  The permutation for the 
ELECTRICAL GPM is as follows:

   | Create  |  |    (shock) | 
   | Destroy |  | no (shock) |
   | Love    |
   | Hate    |
   | Be      |
   | Disown  |
   | Use     |
   | Condemn |
   | Seize   |
   | Escape  |

TOCKY

In the TOCKY GPM, there is a swing of "Sun" from left to right which 
gives a read after each item.  The permutation for the TOCKY GPM is
as follows:

   | Create   |   |    Sun Swing |
   | Abide    |   | no Sun Swing |
   | Enjoy    |
   | Welcome  | 
   | Share    |
   | Keep     |
   | Hold     |
   | Exploit  |
   | Deplore  |
   | Skip     |
   | Continue |
   | Forget   |

Also included are the following two cryptic commands:

   "That's what you get for making this Universe."
   "Get Out-"

No explanation is given for what is "that", who exactly is "you", 
which universe is "this Universe", nor exactly "out" of what or where 
one is to get.  Either it is expected that all these ambiguities will 
be clarified at the time one runs this GPM, or that the ambiguities
are irrelevant, and it is sufficient simply to run the GPM without
this information.


BIG BEING

The BIG BEING GPM is associated with the image of an explosion and 
the subsequent appearance of a BIG BEING (thus the name) in the sky.

The permutation for the BIG BEING GPM is as follows:

  | You  |  | Must      |  | Survive |
  | He   |  | Mustn't   |
  | They |  | Should    |
  | We   |  | Shouldn't |
  | All  |  | Can       |
            | Can't     |

This is followed by another explosion.


THE HOUSE

The only identification of this GPM is the possible appearance of a 
house or internal room.

THE ARROW

In the space of 1/10th of a second, an image appears of two back-to-back 
targets, the front white, and the back black, with an arrow centered on 
each of the targets (the two arrows thus aimed at each other).

WOMAN

The figure of a woman appears for a few hours.  Nothing else.

WHITE BLACK SPHERE

An image of a sphere and a pole, black in front, white in back.

HOT COLD

For 1 1/8 seconds an image appears of a split pole, cold in front, hot 
in back.

LAUGHTER CALM

For 7 1/8ths of a second, in a cave, screams of very wild laughter come 
from the rear (then front) of a split pole, while calm ("a frozen 
numbness") comes from the front (then rear), giving a sensation of total 
disagreement.

"The trick is to conceive of both at the same time."

DANCE MOB

In the incident proper, one is stuck on a pole and trying to get off it.
After this, a chanting mob dances around.  The Pre-OT is supposed to get 
the phrases the mob chants while running this incident.

However, the duration is only 7/8ths of a second, so it is not clear how 
much of the chanting the Pre-OT will be able to "get".

DOUBLE ROD

A long shiny black rod moves from left to right, develops a split in the 
middle, becoming a white rod revolving forward and a black rod revolving 
backward.  Both rods then disappear forward and up.

According to L. Ron Hubbard:

"There is a tremendous feeling of EXCITEMENT attached to this incident. 
It has a sort of feeling attached to it as if it was being squashed 
between the two revolving rods."

BASIC BASIC

This is actually a series of 5 GPM's consisting of explosions inside 
ones head, "where the Thetan is."

THE LOWER BANK

Contained in the lower bank are 48 pairs (of which 8 are found in the 
Fishman Declaration).  All 48 affirmative items are first run, then the 
negative items, than each pair together.  The pair schematic is as 
follows:

   Affirmative:  To build a _______ingness machine.
   Negative:     Not to _______ yourself.

The eight listed items are:  postulate, think, ideanize (ideafyingness), 
reason, solve, order, space, and time.


Operating Thetan Level Three

Level Three is the most widely known of the Operating Thetan levels.  
The purpose of this level is to free the body of hundreds of body 
thetans by clearing the "Xenu" implants.

75,000,000 years ago, Xenu, the head of the then 20,000,000 million-
year-old Galactic Federation used renegades to remove "people" from the 
76 planets of the Federation in order to alleviate overpopulation.  
These people were frozen, brought to Earth (then called Teegeeack), 
placed near volcanoes, exploded with H-bombs, subjected to 36 days of 
picture implants, and then transported to Hawaii or Las Palmas for 
packaging.

After these events, officers loyal to the people waged a six-year 
campaign against Xenu, ultimately capturing and imprisoning him in "an 
electronic mountain trap," where he remains.  The Confederation, 
however, never recovered from the brutality of this conflict, and has 
since become a "desert."

According to L. Ron Hubbard:  "Various misleading data by means of 
circuits etc. was placed in the implants."

Furthermore, this implant was designed to kill ("by pneumonia, etc") 
persons attempting to solve it.  However, L. Ron Hubbard claimed his 
tech enabled a person to avoid this danger, and thus he became the first 
person in 75,000,000 years to obtain this information without dying.

According to L. Ron Hubbard:

   "The pictures contain God, the Devil, angels, space opera,
    theaters, helicopters, a constant spinning, a spinning dancer,
    trains and various scenes very like modern England.  You name it,
    it's in this implant"

Central to Level Three is the issue of body thetans.  Body thetans are 
nothing more than normal disembodied thetans that stick to a human body 
in a cluster.  The basis for a cluster is as follows:  at some point
any given thetan had an initial contact (collision, etc) with another 
thetan.  The actual duration of contact was brief, but because of the 
trauma of contact and withdraw, a permanent picture of the contact is 
formed, thus leading thetans to a belief in permanent contact.  
Subsequent trauma can cause thetans to "cluster" together in an illusory 
permanent bond.  As each thetan in a cluster is a full-fledged thetan, 
and thus responds to normal auditing procedure, clusters may be 
disassembled one thetan at a time by running the initial "contact" 
picture, and clearing the belief in permanent contact.

Once a thetan has been freed from a cluster, it simply wanders off to 
start an independent existence as an ordinary thetan.

Which brings us back to the Xenu incident.  Hundreds of billions of 
thetans were captured, frozen, shipped, exploded, implanted, 
transported, and boxed on Teegeeack 75,000,000 years ago.  The trauma of 
this episode caused them to bond together in large clusters that are at 
this moment attached to every human on Earth (with the exception of 
those who have passed OT III).  Each and every one of these hundreds of 
body thetans needs to be audited and "cleaned off" the human body 
because:

   "Body thetans just hold one back."

However, the Xenu incident (Incident II) was not the first traumatic 
incident of this sort.  Much earlier ("about 4 quadrillion years ago 
plus or minus") Incident I occurred to all thetans in the Universe.  The 
details of this incident are rather sparse.  L. Ron Hubbard describes it 
as follows:

   LOUD SNAP
   WAVES OF LIGHT
   CHARIOT COMES OUT, TURNS RIGHT AND LEFT
   CHERUB COMES OUT
   BLOWS HORN, COMES CLOSE
   SHATTERING SERIES OF SNAPS
   CHERUB FADES BACK (RETREATS)
   BLACKNESS DUMPED ON THETAN

To get rid of a single thetan, the Pre-OT must locate it, isolate it, 
and run Incident I, Incident II, and perhaps the original contact 
picture on it.  This is a tedious and challenging task fraught with 
difficulties.  Only those who have blown off sufficient charge in 
previous auditing have the awareness required to tease out and 
selectively audit individual thetans in a cluster.  Even then, it's not 
easy.  The overwhelming bulk of Level Three material is an extensive 
list of different situations that can arise in auditing BT clusters, and 
directions for dealing with these situations.

The ultimate aim of this process is the ability to "accomplish full 
stable exteriorization" with full perception.  As L. Ron Hubbard puts 
it:

   "OT III is a vital grade.  One fronts up to it and does it.  When
    he is really done, the rewards of OT III and IV exceed his wildest
    dreams."


Operating Thetan Level Four

The purpose of Level Four is to render a Being immune to further 
implantation.  If a Being has no fear of future reimplantation, the 
result is "Certainty of Self as a Being".

The Pre-OT accomplishes this by systematically recreating ("mocking up") 
each implant previously dealt with in the entire Clearing Course, then 
ceasing the recreation, and blowing the charge associated with the 
mocked up implant.  This exercise convinces the Pre-OT that they are at 
cause over, and can confront implants.

Prior to attesting to OT IV, however, the Pre-OT must add up and 
scan out all previous auditing (coming up with a total number of hours), 
and then "find and run a havingness process".


Operating Thetan Level Five

Level Five purports to allow one to "Gain Freedom from Fixated 
Introversion into MEST".  On this Level, the Pre-OT learns nothing less 
than the exact "truth about the Physical Universe, not the laws of 
physical scientists, but the basic considerations about Matter, Energy, 
Space and Time."  The Pre-OT obtains the added bonus of becoming free of 
MEST laws, as well as the encumbrance that "the mind and body" place on 
communication with the environment.

The first step of Level Five involves solo auditing (with eyes closed) 
commands from the following permutation:

   | Spot |  | a spot    |  | in the room  |
             | two spots |  | in your body |
                            | outside      |
                            | on the sun   |

Next, the following steps are repeated "until major cognition, very good 
indicators or exteriorization occurs":

        Spot an object in the room.
        Spot an object outside.
        Locate a moving object.
        Locate a spot in your body.
        Spot a motion.
        Locate a space.
        Spot a Thetan.

The final section consists of eight outdoor exercises, each done until 
cognition.  For example:

   "1.  The pre-OT is to put his attention on an object that is ahead
    of him like a parked car, lamp post, etc. and walk towards it
    noticing the distance between him and it.  He is to continue to do
    this until cognition."

and, 

   "2.  Next the pre-OT is to again pick out an object ahead of him
    and wrap in energy beam around it and himself and pull himself
    toward the object with shortening of the beam."

And that's all.  At this point, the Pre-OT can attest to "Cause Over 
MEST".


Operating Thetan Level Six

Level Six consists of a series of exercises which are ideally performed 
until the Pre-OT simultaneously achieves a floating needle, major 
cognition, and regained ability.

These exercises include, among others:

   "Be  Three feet in back of your head.  Whatever you are looking at,
    copy it a dozen times, put it into you.  Find the two back corners
    of the room and hold onto them without thinking for two minutes."

   "Find two corners of the planet Earth, hold onto them for two
    minutes."

   "Find a person in a distant land.  Notice the time of  day.  Notice
    the terrain.  Notice the general environment.  Smell the air.
    Locate a thought that is his.  Locate a thought that is yours."

   "Create in your body a feeling of calmness;  create in your body
    sexual desire and turn it off.  Continue that step until you feel
    you have control over the sexual drives."

It is worth noting that one of the abilities to be regained in Level Six 
is the ability to travel at will in an exteriorized state, and see the 
sights and read the thoughts in another place.  This ability would be 
extraordinarily useful in obtaining key intelligence information about 
criminal conspiracies, but curiously, there is no evidence that this 
ever actually occurs.


Operating Thetan Level Seven

The goal of Level Seven is the ability to "easily place an intention 
into or on a Being and/or a body."  Level Seven is organized into seven 
sections which constitute a thorough rundown on "intention" and related 
concepts.

The first section, "Basic Processes Set-up," covers the basics of 
intention, including a "very thorough" word-clear on "intention".

Other items include: 

   What are you willing to cause?
   Decide something.
   What isn't a clear intention.
   Invent (mock-up) some intentions.

There are also numerous permutations of themes such as:

   Tell me a thought/intention others would be willing to
     receive from others.
   What intention of yours has another not helped?
   What intention of others could you confront?
   What intention of yours could you be responsible for?
   Get the idea I cannot place an intention.

One of the more unusual commands in the first section is, "Give me an 
unknown datum."  It is not clear whether or not this should be given the 
interpretation which leads to logical paradox.

Section two, "L&N Intention Process" requires an L&N on the item from 
the following list with the biggest read:

   Has an intention been....
   Suppressed                       Forgotten
   Invalidated                      Hidden
   Blunted                          Avoided
   Abandoned                        Altered
   Denied                           Twisted
   Enforced                         Changed
   Desired                          Completed
   Decided                          Made Wrong

Section three, "Placing thoughts and intentions" consists of a number of 
exercises, of which the following is most salient:

   Think a thought.
   Creatively place that thought in/on that.  (Indicated object.)
   Now creatively get that (indicated object) thinking that thought.
   Creatively have that (indicated object) continue thinking that
     thought.
   Creatively have that (indicated object) cease thinking that though.

Section four, "Outside Processes with an auditor (objects)", involves 
exercises (conducted outside) to place thoughts and decisions into an 
object.

Section five, "Outside Processes with an Auditor (people)", involves 
exercises similar to section four, but with people, including:

   Postulate perfection into that person.
   Tell me something you wouldn't mind that person not-knowing about 
     you.

Section six, "Inside Processes solo", consists of a mix of exercises 
performed on an E-meter, such as:

   What confusion could you create?

   Mock-up your (father, wife, mother, husband).
   Mock him (her) up again.
   Dispose of these mock-ups.

   How could another appreciate another as a human Being.

The Pre-OT is then required to "Find and run a havingness process on
yourself."

Section seven, "Outside Processes solo", contains several exercises 
related to knowing about, intending, etc., random people (in a place 
with "lots of people").  The final exercises of this section (and, thus, 
of Level Seven) have become rather well known:

   OT7-48
   1.  Find some plants, trees, etc., and communicate to them
   individually until you know they received your communication.
   2.  Go to a zoo or a place with many types of life and communicate
   with each of them until you know the communication is received
   and, if possible, returned.
   OT7-49
   Go out to a park, train station or other busy area.  Practice
   placing an intention into individuals until you can successfully
   and easily place an intention into or on a Being and/or a body.

At this point, the Pre-OT can attest to OT VII.



