
   	      The Scandal of Scientology 

		Paulette Cooper

	           A TOWER BOOK


THE SCANDAL OF SCIENTOLOGY

Tower Publications, Inc.
185 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10016

Copyright © MICMLXXI by Paulette Cooper

Printed in U.S.A.

All Rights Reserved

end page 4

	to my parents TED & STELLA 
	with all my, love, and thanks

end page 5
	blank page
end page 6
		Contents

PREFACE 					 9
INTRODUCTION					13
1.	FROM Dianetics TO SCIENTOLOGY		21
2.	THE CONFESSIONALS ................	27
3.	LIFE AND SEX IN THE WOMB .........	31
4.	HAVE YOU LIVED BEFORE THIS LIFE		37
5.	SPREADING THE WORD 			43
6.	THE ORG					47
7	THE SEA ORG 				51
8	THE BRITISH AND AUSTRALIAN ORGS		57
9	ATTACKING THE ATTACKERS ........	69
10	THE SUPPRESSIVES ..................	75
11	THE SEXUAL AND CRIMINAL SECURITY CHECK 	85
12	THE WORLD OF SCIENTOLOGY ......		93
13	CHILDREN AND CELEBRITIES ........	99
end page 7
14.	SCIENTOLOGY-BUSINESS OR RELIGION?	107
15.	IS SCIENTOLOGY POLITICAL?		115
16	SCIENTOLOGY VERSUS MEDICINE		123
17.	THE SECRET SCIENTOLOGY SESSIONS		133
I8	THE E-METER				145
19.	THE HIGH COST OF SCIENTOLOGY		151
20.	THE TRUTH ABOUT L RON HUBBARD		159
21	DOES SCIENTOLOGY WORK? .........	169
	CONCLUSION 				185
	APPENDIX 				191
end page 8

		PREFACE

The Scandal of Scientology is not the story of one isolated 
group. It tells of a loosely organized network of hundreds, 
perhaps thousands, of franchises, "Orgs," "Churches," etc., 
that have been established in various parts of the world. Each 
group has its own personality. Because one incident may have 
occurred in Australia or England, it does not necessarily mean 
that it has happened, or even could happen, in America, or vice 
versa. The only thing the Scientology groups or "Orgs" have 
in common is their acceptance of L. Ron Hubbard's theories and 
policies.

	This book contains more historical than contemporary material. 
Some of the information comes from an American tax case that 
ran from 1956 to 1959; some of it comes from a 1963-1965 Inquiry 
in Victoria, Australia; and some comes from statements Hubbard 
made in the 1950's. Every day there are new directives, cancelling 
old policies and creating new ones so that the nature, beliefs 
and practices of Scientology are constantly changing. It is 
to Hubbard and the Scientologists' credit that the direction 
is generally a positive one, and that some of the less laudable 
practices outlined in this book appear on the wane.

	I have tried to present the Scientologists' statements (quoting 
them directly whenever possible) and actions, along with the 
statements and actions of those who are against them or who 
have had difficulties with them. Until now, Scientologists 
have been able to keep the

end page 9

 stories a secret, generally by suing. 
However, as more inquiries into Scientology are made, as more 
news stories about the organization are printed, and as more 
criticism against scientology is loaded, Scientologists may 
discover that law suits are ineffectual. Instead 
of trying to hide what is going on in their house, they may 
have to clean it up. If they don't, various national 
governments may not permit them to survive. The Scientologists 
are already recognizing this. Like many groups that were formerly, 
enfantes terribles, Scientology, if it continues in its current 
clean-up campaign, may one day become one of the world's most respected 
groups or Churches.

	It has taken more than two years to gather all the material in this 
book. I would like to thank a few of the people who unselfishly 
gave of their time and energy to aid the project. First, I'd 
like to thank those who helped in the early phases of the manuscript: 
Haves B. Jacobs, C. Michael Curtis, and especially, Ann Bert, 
and Queen Magazine which published a small portion of this 
book. I am also especially grateful for the help later on of 
Michael I. Sanders, Ray Buckingham, Ralph Lee Smith, Susan Kideckel, 
Robin Wagner, Jay Larsan, and especially, Adelaide Ungerland. 
Finally, l'd like to thank those who helped me with this book 
in England: Victor Briggs, Paul Nix, and especially, Peter Haining.

end page 10

A [scientology] "clear" can be tested for any and all psychoses, 
neuroses, compulsions and repressions (all aberrations) and 
can be examined for.. psychosomatic ills. These tests confirm 
the clear to be entirely without such ills or aberrations. 
Additional tests of his intelligence indicate it to be high 
above the current norm. Observation of his activity demonstrates 
that he pursues existence with vigour and satisfaction.
								L. Ron Hubbard 
I find that I have seen very little, if any, 
result from Scientology processing that I would consider 
to be demonstrable results in the physical universe 
I have yet to see a stable "clear" that could operate better 
continuously in the physical universe.
								L. Ron Hubbard Jr.

end page 11
	blank page
end page  12

			INTRODUCTION

You may have seen them standing on street corners with a handful 
of leaflets, distributing them aggressively to passers by. You 
may not even have noticed them at all, because they look so 
much like you and me -except maybe a little younger, and sometimes 
a little more like a hippie. But if you had stopped to take 
one of their leaflets, you would have discovered that you were 
being invited to "step into the exciting world of the totally 
free" for a lecture on Scientology, "the applied philosophy of 
knowing." On closer perusal, you would have discovered that 
Scientology can "raise your I.Q. to over 135, give you creative 
imagination, amazing vitality, deep relaxation, good memory', 
strong will power, radiant health, magnetic personality and 
good self-control." It sounds pretty good, so it's possible 
that if you had nothing better to do that night, you may have found yourself 
outside one of their headquarters, about to step into what 
they call "the exciting world of the totally free." Once 
you walked into this world, you would have immediately noticed 
a number of large posters of a fatherly looking man, a book store 
with over thirty-five books, all written by the same man, a bulletin 
board listing various levels of "freedom," and everywhere, people 
running around, busy in some unseen activity, but never too 
busy to stop and greet each other and often you, the newcomer, 
with a handshake, a "thank you," a strange smile that seems 
to be attached to but not part of his face, and an intense stare 
that would

end page 13

startle a paranoid, but would please someone who likes to be 
looked straight in the eye.

	After you settled in, you would be directed into a classroom, 
where a pleasant-looking man welcomed you to the "Church of 
Scientology". The man might begin the lecture rather nervously he 
probably never spoke in public before he joined Scientology by 
telling you how Scientology changed his life.

	"Six years ago I was a failure," he may begin, "earning $15,000 
a year. I had a wife, a house, and a child. I hated my job, 
hated my wife, hated my life. On the weekends I used to lie 
in bed staring at the ceiling, wondering how I had ever gotten 
into this mess. And then I discovered Scientology."

	"Beautiful," says a girl standing by the door, and everybody 
turns around to see an attractive brunette with a strange stare 
that immediately marks her as a Scientologist.

	"Now I have discovered freedom, he continues. "I have left 
my wife. I have quit my job. And I am now earning $40 a week 
here lecturing to you. I am busy. I have wonderful new friends. 
I love my work here. I am now a real success through Scientology

	One man picks up his attache case and leaves; this is obviously 
not his idea of success. But the rest sit back, waiting to learn 
how he was saved by Scientology, expecting a speech full of thunder 
and lightning, and most of all, references to God. But no -the 
Church of Scientology rarely mentions God and the speech is 
more like a sales pitch than a revivalist meeting. The man is 
obviously selling something, but it's hard to tell exactly what 
it is. He does not talk in terms of prices or bargains, discounts 
or markups; he seems to be selling an elusive product called 
"happiness."

	"We had a woman come in here who was in psychoanalysis for eight 
years," he continues. "Eight years. But after five days in Scientology, 
she had no more problems."
"Beautiful," says the Scientology girl again. But now

end page 14

the rest of the audience seems to be silently agreeing
with her, and since her remark is no longer out of place,
no one turns around to look at her. Instead. everyone is
sitting up, straining slightly forward like runners waiting
for the starting gun, waiting to hear more about the mir-
acle. But again they are surprised. Instead of elaborat-
ing on how Scientology could have helped that woman,
or anyone else. the lecturer goes into a long philosoph-
ical discourse on "communication." A few people walk
out; several, too polite or too self-conscious, let their
eyes wander over to the various exits as they secretly
plan their escape. Their time comes about a half hour
later when the lights are turned off and a movie about
Scientology is flashed on a screen. Four or five people
sneak out now, ducking low, perhaps anxious not to
disturb others with their shadow on the screen, perhaps
not wishing to be identified. Those who do stay, however
are in for more surprises. The movie stars a man
named L. Ron Hubbard who they realize, is the same
man who wrote all those books outside and when L.
Ron Hubbard comes on the screen, with an open shirt,
ascot and the type of smile that suggests he's hiding gum in 
back of his mouth, the audience discovers that he is the same 
fatherly looking man who appeared in all the posters outside. 
Only now, he doesn't look nearly so composed. The film shows 
an interview on the British Broadcasting Company, and throughout, 
Hubbard keeps alternating his clenched smile with a look that 
suggests that his interviewer, or perhaps his questions, has 
a very bad odour. The film is as tiring as the lecture, but at 
last, that too is over, and the lecturer makes his final sales 
pitch  only this time, he is selling something quite tangible the 
first Scientology course, which he says might increase your 
I.Q. by fifteen or twenty points, but is "guaranteed to help 
you improve your communication or your money back" for 
only $15.

	If you had been one of the dozen people still left, it is
possible that you would have signed up for that course,
along with the rest of the people who remained. After

end page 15

all, where else in this world could you find a promise of instant 
happiness for only $15 with a money-back guarantee as well? where 
else, if you're Ionely, could you find such an immediate world 
of promising friends. If you're sexually. or socially frustrated, 
where else could you find as many young single attractive people? 
If you didn't get as far in school as you would have liked, 
where else could you take a few courses and attach a (Scientology) 
B.A. to your name -or better still, for a few more courses be 
called "Doctor" or "Reverend"? In fact, if you always wanted 
to be a doctor, psychiatrist, or priest, where else could you 
become the equivalent of this in less than a year of training? 
And if you're curious about this exciting world of the totally, 
free that you've accidentally stumbled upon, how else could 
you find out more about it without parting that $15--

	Some of the people who signed up for Scientology to satiate their 
curiosity might have done better if they had read the newspapers. 
They would have read that Scientology is currently being investigated 
in England. They would have read that Scientology has been 
banned in Victoria, Australia, Western Australia, and South 
Australia. They would have read that in Scientology, some people 
are allowed to listen to the most intimate sexual secrets of 
other people after just a few months of training. They would 
have read of the "death lessons" that were once being taught 
in British schools devised by Scientologists. They would have 
read of a group called "The Process" that worships sex and the 
devil and believes in every type of sexual perversion they 
were started by Scientologists. They would have read of a man 
named Charles Manson, convicted of murdering Sharon Tate and 
others he may have been a Scientologist. They would have read 
of a group that tried to "take over" the National Association 
of Mental Health in England they too were Scientologists. They 
would have read about the Scientology "Reverend" who was

end page 16

sleeping with a married woman who had come to him for help with 
her marital problems, and who was shot by the husband of the 
woman. They would have read of a group that makes its members 
hold on to a "Lie detector" while the leaders asked them the 
most intimate details about their sexual life, and then took 
these answers and sent them to the leader of the group that 
is Scientology.

	My own introduction to Scientology started about a year and 
a half ago. It was the day after Robert F. Kennedy was killed 
and I was still a little shaky, still glued to the TV set, still 
moaning that such a tragedy couldn't have happened twice. In 
the midst of my mourning, I received a frantic call from a former 
boss of mine, a man in his forties whom I hadn't seen in a couple 
of years, who said it was imperative to see me immediately. 
When he arrived, carrying a flowerpot with a McCarthy button 
stuck in the soil, I poured him a drink and sat down in the 
chair across from him, waiting to hear what was so important

	"Come over here and sit on my lap," he said coyly. "There's 
something I have to tell you."

	I obeyed, not realizing what was about to happen.

	"I've just discovered who I am," he said, and I sat
there quietly, waiting for his reply. 

	"God," he told me.

	I got off his lap quickly. Unfortunately, it wasn't quite that 
easy to get off the subject. He prattled on and on like a paranoid, 
telling me what it was like to be God.

	"When did you discover you were God?" I finally interrupted.

	"Since I joined Scientology," he told me.

	"Oh I think I've read a little about them," I laughed. "Aren't 
they the ones who believe we've been reincarnated for 74 trillion years?" 

	He nodded.

"Oh come on," I chided. "You don't really believe

end page 17

that. You're so conservative, House in Long Island, nice kids, 
a wife."

	"Not any more," he told me. "I left her." 
	"Why?"
	"She was suppressing me." 
	"was she against Scientology?"
	"Yes," he admitted. "But she was wrong. Scientology has helped me."

	"But anything helps a person for a while if he believes in it," 
I said, and started arguing with him about faith healing.

	"You're wrong," he told me "and just to prove to you that Scientology 
has really helped me, look how much I've changed. All I used 
to care about was making money. Now all I care about is helping 
people. I've given $700 away this week to people standing on 
the street corner who looked like they needed to be helped. Look" 
he said, and removed several crumpled sheets of paper from his 
pocket and began reading the names, phone numbers, and occupations 
of every person he'd met in the past few weeks from hippies 
in the Village to the conductor who'd taken his train ticket.

	"What are you going to do with those?" I asked him. 
	"Help them, too," he said. 
	"How?"
	"By keeping the Mafia away from them." 
	"But the Mafia isn't after them," I protested.
	"That's because I wrote down their names," he replied.

I decided to stop arguing; he was too far gone. Instead I 
sat there for a while, listening to his delusions of persecution 
by the Mafia, of his conversations with God, of the changes 
in his life since he had joined Scientology, and of all the 
reasons why I should join it too. After a while he stopped 
talking altogether and went into a trance. I sat there quietly 
until I noticed that his eyes were riveted on me. I immediately 
panicked, because after I graduated college, I had worked for 
a short while with patients at a mental hospital. After a

end page 18

few difficult situations, I knew what his glazed look meant.

	I was right.
	"God has decided to rape you," he said slowly, as he started 
walking all too quickly toward me.

	I didn't dare show how frightened I was. The trick for handling 
people when they got dangerous at the hospital was to keep talking to 
keep them talking. But now with both arms like a vise around 
me, and only one thought on his mind, it was hard to find another 
topic to interest him.

	"Tell me more about Scientology," I finally said. This worked. 
He released his grip and went into another trance, talking again 
about how Scientology had helped him.

	"Just look at what it's done for me," he said, while I was trying 
to steer him out the door.
	I took a long, hard look.
	Two weeks later he was in a mental institution


	After that evening, I put Scientology' down on my list
as a possible topic to write about. But I didn't really 
decide to investigate it until I bumped into another old
friend who had also become a Scientologist. He too
tried to persuade me to join.

	"I know all about that," I said, cutting him off right
in the middle of his perfectly practiced sales pitch. "In
fact, do you remember who used to work with us in
our company? He was in Scientology."

	"I 'know," said my Scientology friend proudly. "I was
the one who brought him in."

	"Well," I fumed, "do you also 'know that he is now in
a mental institution? While he was in Scientology he de-
cided he was God."


	"Maybe," said my Scientologist friend, "he really is."

end page 19
blank page
end page 20

			CHAPTER ONE

FROM DIANETICS TO SCIENTOLOGY

		The sun never sets on Scientology
				 -- from "The Aims of Scientology"

	In 1950, a fad called "Dianetics" hit America like a hurricane, 
attracting hundreds of thousands of people, especially on the 
West Coast, by promising to cure them of all of their problems 
without subjecting them to all those tedious hours required 
by psychoanalysis. To understand the cause of all their problems, 
and cure them, all they had to do was read a book written by 
a science fiction writer named L. Ron Hubbard. But in addition 
to letting people cure themselves, this book had something to 
offer those people who had always secretly wanted to be doctors 
and to cure others. It allowed them to do this without all those 
tedious years of required training. All they had to do was also 
read the book by Hubbard.

	The impact of this book, Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental 
Health, was incredible. Dianetics clubs sprang up everywhere. 
People referred to Hubbard's book simply as The Book, and thought 
of it more as The Bible. Thousands were throwing Dianetic parties 
and reliving their birth (in keeping with the Dianetics Philosophy 
which stated that a person's prenatal experiences were the cause 
of many of that person's problems today). What had once been 
a Seance had at last become Science.

end page  21

But then, just when everyone was having fun. a few critics had 
to come along and spoil it all. Dianetics was discredited by 
the professional doctors and their organizations, and .America 
deserted it to search for Bridey Murphy (the Irish woman who 
believed she had been reincarnated) instead.

	Dianetics then also quietly underwent a rebirth. First, people 
could no longer become "doctors" just by buying Hubbard's book. 
Instead, they had to pay to take courses at his institutions before 
they could get "professional" courses. Secondly, Hubbard changed 
the "science" of Dianetics to a "religion." And last, he re- 
named this religion "Scientology."

	Not everyone applauded these moves. One critic said the name 
"Scientology" was no more impressive than if a fruit shop proprietor 
decided to call himself a "Fruitologist." But most of the objections and 
suspicion-were levied not at the name but at the "religion." 
Agnostics seemed to resent the religion, and the religious may 
have resented the agnosticism.

	Scientologists did accept the idea of God, but believed that 
God existed in each man as a "thetan," which is roughly comparable 
to the "spirit" or "soul." They therefore preached that man 
doesn't have a soul or spirit he is a spirit called a thetan. 
God. when he was referred to, was sometimes called the Big Thetan. 
In addition to worshipping a deity, Scientology' also had some 
other religious elements as well. Its adherents were imbued 
with a missionary fervor, eager to march forth and deliver the 
gospel according to Hubbard. In addition, the followers took 
on faith in everything Hubbard said. And finally, L. Ron Hubbard-or 
"Ron" as believers called him the Western Guru, inventor, leader 
and promoter of Dianetics and Scientology, while never proclaiming 
he was God, was placed in an almost equally exalted position 
by his followers.

	Many people were still suspicious about Dianetics' conversion 
to religion, perhaps because the "science" of

end page 22
	Dianetics had run into so many difficulties that mining it into 
a religion and renaming it may have seemed like an attempt to 
evade its pervasive problems. The first problem was the desertion 
of one of the earliest and most prestigious adherents of Dianetics, 
Dr. J. A. Winter. Winter had written the foreword to Hubbard's 
book and had become the director of Hubbard's Dianetic Institute. 
After he severed his relationship with Dianetics, he wrote a 
book called A Doctors Report on Dianetics, which not only criticized 
Hubbard's research and methods, but said that Dianetics was 
causing people to go psychotic. He discussed the case of one 
person who was treated by the Dianetic institute and then disappeared, 
returning later and stating he had with him "one of my disciples, 
Saint Simon..."

	In addition, in January of 1951, the New Jersey Board of Medical 
Examiners instituted proceedings against Hubbard's Dianetic 
Organization for operating an unlicensed medical school, and 
possibly for letting people append an "M.D." after their names, 
representing not a "Medical Doctor" but a "Master of Dianetics." 
Also, Hubbard had some philosophical differences with a Dianetic 
Foundation he had established in California and broke off with 
them. Hubbard's Wichita foundation filed a voluntary petition 
of bankruptcy on February 21, 1951. Some of Hubbard's other 
organizations in Phoenix, Philadelphia and London were successful, 
but he ran into difficulties later in Washington when he established 
The Founding Church of Scientology there. And then, to add 
to Hubbard's troubles and successes, he brought Scientology 
abroad.

	By March, 1959, Hubbard had moved the entire operation over 
to England's Saint Hill Manor in East Grinstead, Sussex, right 
outside London. He left America, according to the London Times 
"because the atmosphere was being poisoned by nuclear experiments." 
By the time he left America, he had 153 franchised Scientology 
auditors here. A "franchise" may be a strange structure for 
a group that insists they're a Church, and

end page 23

that may explain why they've recently renamed them "missions." 
It doesn't matter whether they are called missions or franchises. 
What does matter is that they all had to turn over ten percent 
of their gross income to Hubbard. In addition, by that time. 
he had established headquarters or "Orgs" as they called them 
(short for organizations) in various parts of Australia, Africa, 
New Zealand and Europe all turning over ten percent of their 
income to Hubbard, too.

	While such an arrangement would seem quite enviable, Hubbard's 
problems were just beginning. The British were not enchanted 
with Scientology. They refused to recognize Saint Hill as a 
Church Hubbard could only claim it as an educational establishment. 
Then, they refused to give Scientology students visas to enter 
the country for study or work at Saint Hill. And finally, they 
decided to set up an Inquiry into Scientology, which is now 
under way.

	If the Inquiry is anything like the other Inquiries, Hubbard's 
problems are far from over. After Victoria, Australia, completed 
its Scientology Inquiry, Scientology was banned and its practice 
was made punishable by up to $500 and two years in jail. In 
South Australia, officials outlawed Scientology and their use 
of E-meters, a device similar to a lie detector. In Western 
Australia, Scientology was also banned. In New Zealand officials 
conducted an Inquiry into Scientology, but decided not to ban 
it because they felt it had changed (although they did criticize 
some of its earlier methods and expressed concern over certain 
Scientology practices). Scientology was not banned in New South 
Wales, however, where anybody can set himself up as a consulting 
psychologist (one New South Wales man who was convicted of kidnapping 
and murder had at one point in his career styled himself as 
a therapist). And in South Africa, where an Inquiry is currently 
under way, it does not look hopeful. One witness allegedly testified 
that the Scientologists were planning to arm 5.000 Africans 
and seize control of the government. A member of South

end page 24

Africa's Parliament referred to Scientology as a "cancer
like communism that could destroy South Africa."
And yet, despite all the Inquiries, despite all the
bannings, and despite all the negative publicity, outsiders
estimate that the Scientologists probably have several
hundred thousand followers in .America (possibly a
quarter of a million in California alone), maybe one
hundred thousand in England, and possibly two to three
million in the world. The Scientologists' own figures are
even more glowing; they claim at least four million
members in America and probably five million members
in the world. One thing is certain Scientology is
expanding, and probably tripled or quadrupled its members
in the past few years.

	What is the future of Scientology'? Will its adherents 
revive Dianetics, as they are doing in America and Eng-
land now, if they run into more and more difficulties?
Will they repeat their claims that they are a science, or
will they make their claims that they are a religion even 
more vociferously? In a letter titled "Scientology 1970,"
Hubbard wrote that Scientology would be planned on a 
religious basis throughout the world. The letter con-
cluded: "This will not upset in any way the usual activi- 
ties of any organization. It is entirely a matter for ac-
countants and solicitors."

end page 25
blank page
end page 26

CHAPTER TWO

THE CONFESSIONALS

When matters of sex and perversion are introduced... 
as is frequently the case, they are discussed and probed and 
dwelt upon sometimes for hours on end. The quality of the filth 
and depravity recorded in the files as being discussed... 
almost defies description.
				 from the Australia Inquiry

The "Church of Scientology," as they call themselves today, no 
longer claims to cure people of their emotional and physical 
problems. Instead, they say it's people's spiritual well-being 
that concerns them now. The method is still basically the same, 
resembling a combination of psychotherapy and the Catholic 
Confession although Scientologists today emphasize their similarities 
with the latter. The beginning Scientologist is called a "preclear" someone 
who is not yet free from his problems and difficulties as is 
a "clear" Scientologist. The "preclear" reveals intimate details 
of his past and discusses his present problems with an "auditor," 
someone resembling a priest, who is frequently called Minister 
or Reverend in the Scientology Church.

	During this Scientology "Confessional," which is called "auditing" 
and sometimes "processing," the preclear holds onto two empty 
tin cans usually soup or V-8 juice  which are connected to 
a crude galvanometer Scientologists call an "E-meter." The preclear 

end page  27

believes that the E-meter works somewhat like a lie detector. 
He is told that it is a "truth detector," however, and he therefore 
reveals increasingly intimate details of his life to his auditor 
while holding on to the meter.

	There are major differences between the Catholic and Episcopalian 
confessionals and a Scientologist confessional. First of all, 
before they will audit him, the Scientologists make the confessor 
sign a release form swearing he will never sue them. Second, 
the Scientologists charge people for the opportunity of unburdening 
themselves and they charge a great deal of money for this privilege. 
Third, the person has very little choice about what he "confesses" 
because he is asked certain questions repeatedly, such as "Have 
you done anything your mother would be ashamed to find out?" 
He must not only answer these questions but he must answer them 
fully and truthfully or else the "lie detector" will give him 
away. Fourth, the intimate information he reveals to his auditor 
is not kept completely confidential. As many as ten people may 
examine these files, since a preclear's records are available 
to all of his auditors (who often number five or six), plus 
the Director of Processing and occasionally the Ethics Officer, 
a type of internal police officer in the Scientology organization. 
In addition, Hubbard has access to these records. Portions of 
a preclear's files may be sent to the main Scientology headquarters 
at Saint Hill so that Hubbard can review them for research.

	Finally, in addition to not always maintaining complete confidentiality 
cases have occurred (and they are certainly the exception and 
not the rule) in which some of the auditors have also failed 
to maintain a proper professional relationship with their preclears. 
One reason for this may be the surprising physical intimacy 
that exists between auditor and preclear. In at least one exercise 
that is part of the Scientology auditing, the auditor and 
preclear are seated in chairs without arms, close together, 
with their knees intertwined. In other exercises the auditors 
may touch or move the preclear

end page 28

around, or touch his hands for several hours, moving them slowly 
in a circular motion, (an act which could surely become quite 
sensual after a long period of time).

	Ethical problems may have also occurred because many of these 
auditors are only in their teens or early twenties. Teenagers, 
wrote a scientology director once, "make the SWINGINEST auditors." 
Yet despite their age, these teens are supposed to remain objective 
and uninvolved while listening to what the Australian Inquiry 
described as "normal and abnormal sexual matters that are frequently 
dwelt upon in great detail and in an erotic manner." During 
these sessions, the preclear is encouraged to shed his inhibitions, 
and his reticence or reluctance to reveal the most intimate 
things may be disparaged. Scientology files have contained such 
statements as "pc (preclear) gets often the urge to move down 
to his sex organs. If he does that he gets restimutated." Or 
"pc has a bug about sending sexual beams at auditor," or even 
"pc disturbed because he came to have auditing and now wants 
to have sexual intercourse."

	Apparently, it's not only the preclear that has gotten sexually 
stimulated in such an atmosphere. One male auditor wrote on 
his preclear's file that she was "sexy as hell." In another 
case, the Reverend William J. Fisk (a Scientology Reverend) 
was conducting his scientology class in Seattle when Russell 
Edward Johnson, thirty six, a carpenter and building contractor 
entered the room. According to the Seattle Times, Fisk shouted 
"This man is going to shoot me. Go get a cop. Please someone 
get a cop." But his plea was too late. With one bullet in his 
chest, fired by Russell Johnson, the Reverend was dead.

	During the murder trial 'it came out that Reverend Fisk, the 
one who was killed, was not only having an affair with Johnson's 
wife, but had revealed the fact to Johnson himself, boasting 
that Johnson's wife was completely under his control. The wife 
also told her husband


end page 29

that she had been having an affair, and in fact, sued him 
for divorce on the day before the murder. The wife, a mother 
of four children, had spent approximately $l.000 on Scientology, 
and had been going for help with her marital problems. (If anyone 
is wondering what happened to Johnson afterwards. forget 
what you read in Anatomy of a Murder. in that book, a 
husband 'killed the man who had intercourse with his wife, pleaded 
"irresistible impulse" and went free. In this case, Johnson 
pleaded "temporary, insanity" and was sentenced to fifteen years 
in prison.)

	Other ethical difficulties may arise because the auditors are 
just hastily trained layman. Their backgrounds are not checked 
or investigated they only answer a simple true false questionnaire 
about themselves. According to a United States tax case, in 
Chicago, the (scientology Reverend Justin agreed to audit a 
woman for $1,000 on the condition that he could move into the 
house with her, her husband, and their three young daughters. 
After the Reverend entrenched himself firmly in the home, the 
husband saw that the Reverend was upsetting his wife and asked 
him to leave. He refused. Nine months after he finally did go, 
the parents learned that the Reverend had secretly tried to 
see and possibly to remove two of their young daughters 
who were staying in a Girl Scout Camp. Girl Scout authorities 
stopped him and informed the parents. The parents still suspected 
nothing until one month later the Reverend was found wandering 
around the halls of the young girls' grammar school looking 
for the three of them. The authorities took him to the principal's 
office, found out what he was doing, and called the wife. Several 
months later, three United States Marshals came to the parents' 
home looking for the Reverend Justin, saying there was a complaint 
against him elsewhere for molesting little girls.

end page 30

CHAPTER THREE

LIFE AND SEX IN THE WOMB

Please pick up the somatic at the beginning and roll the 
engram.
 			L. Ron Hubbard

	The purpose of Scientology "auditing" or "processing" is to 
help the preclear get rid of his "engrams." which Scientology
say are a type of impression imprinted on
the protoplasm of the cell itself. Hubbard believes that 
these engrams are stored in the "reactive mind" (roughly comparable 
to Freud's unconscious) and that before a person can solve his 
problems, the engram has to be refiled in the "analytic" mind 
(in other words the conscious mind). By transferring the engrams 
in this manner, a person is supposed to become aware of his 
problems and is presumably able to resolve them.

	These engrams are said to have been recorded on the cells during 
moments of unconsciousness or extreme pain. In addition, they 
begin to record not from the moment we were born, but from the 
moment we were conceived, sometimes earlier. Some Scientology 
are able to remember being a sperm or even the egg eagerly waiting 
to be met by the sperm. Thus it is obvious that Scientologists 
believe that many of our problems started long before we were 
born. Hubbard's theory never makes it really clear, at least 
in a manner that would be accepted by most medical doctors, 
exactly how engrams can be planted before a foetus had developed 
a nervous

end page  31

system or the sense organs which to register an impression, 
or even how a person could retain or "remember" verbal statements 
before he had command of a language. Scientologists simply accept 
his theory on faith, that if a husband beats his pregnant wife 
and shouts "take that" as he hits her, a "take that" engram 
can be planted in the womb. Thus, when junior grows up. he might 
react to this statement literally, and become a thief whose 
goal is to "take that." In fact. if you examine Hubbard's view 
of marital life as reflected in the case studies of his first 
book, you discover that most fathers spent a good portion of 
their marital lives giving engrams to their unborn children 
by beating their wives while they were pregnant with junior 
or while in the act of conceiving him. But the fathers weren't 
the only villains. Many of the mothers Hubbard depicted made 
Medea look like the Madonna. When these mothers weren't being 
knocked up or knocked down by their husbands, they were usually 
giving their unborn children engrams with AA (Attempted Abortion). 
Hubbard wrote that "twenty or thirty abortion attempts are not 
uncommon in the aberee," and there are so many attempted abortions 
in Hubbard's case histories that it sometimes seems to be a 
miracle that any of us got here at all. Those children who did 
make it through, despite the attempted abortion, suffered 
later in life, not only from the traces of whatever the mother 
used to try to abort him usually knitting needles according 
to Hubbard but because when he grew up, he was condemned to 
live with murderers whom he knows reactively to be murderers 
through all of his weak and helpless youth because he could 
"remember" the abortion attempt.

	Readers should not be alarmed if they are unable to remember 
their life in the womb, or conception. The earliest a non-Scientologist 
can remember, according to most doctors and psychiatrists, is 
approximately eighteen months. Hubbard says that we can remember 
earlier, and one of the reasons we think we can't is of

end page 32

course attempted abortion. "The standard attempted abortion 
case nearly always has an infanthood and childhood full of Mama 
assuring him that he cannot remember anything when he was a 
baby. She doesn't want him to recall how handy she was, if 
unsuccessful. in her efforts with various instruments. Possibly 
prenatal memory itself would be just ordinary memory. if 
this guilty conscience in mother had not been rolling..." Hubbard 
also said that another reason the mothers encouraged the child 
either to forget or think they couldn't remember was that "Mama 
often has had a couple of more men than Papa that Papa never 
knew about." He also implied that this is why mothers might 
not want their children to go into Dianetics, so that as early 
as Hubbard's first book, where this appeared, Hubbard was saying 
that people who fought Dianetics had crimes that they were trying 
to conceal-- a theme which later becomes almost an obsession 
with him.

	When Hubbard's mothers weren't trying to abort themselves, or 
being beaten, they were often having affairs. This situation 
could also give the unborn child an engram, especially if 
the child in the womb was ultimately to be named after the father. 
Hubbard believed that many of these unfaithful wives made unpleasant 
remarks about their husbands to their lovers, and that junior, 
who was being knocked practically unconscious in the womb by 
the sex act, would "hear" these remarks and think they were 
aimed at him.

	It is obvious that with all the lovers trysts, attempted abortions, 
beatings, etc., life in the womb was no joy for junior. Hubbard 
wrote that there were even more problems since there were 
"intestinal squeaks, groans, flowing water, belches" all making 
continual sounds for the foetus or embryo. It was also quite 
tight in there, a situation which was aggravated if the mother 
had high blood pressure. In addition, if the mother sneezed, 
the "baby gets knocked unconscious." If the mother ran into 
a table, "baby gets his head shoved in." If the mother was constipated, 
"baby in an anxious effort gets squashed."

end page 33

If the mother took quinine-- presumably for an attempted abortion the 
child could have a ringing sound in his ears throughout his 
life. And if the parents had intercourse, the child had the 
additional sensation of being put through a washing machine. 
Not only was the foetus or embryo supposed to be aware of the 
sensation of intercourse between his parents, or whomever, 
but the engram could record what they were saying as well. 
The following case was allegedly remembered by a preclear.

	GIRL: I wonder what they're doing? then a 
	pause.) I hear a squishing sound! (Then a pause 
	and embarrassment.) Oh!

	AUDITOR: Recount the engram please.

	GIRL: There's sort of a faint rhythm at first 
	and then it gets faster. I can hear breathing. Now it's 
	beginning to bear down harder but a lot less than it 
	did the first time. Then it eases up and I hear my 
	father's voice: "Oh honey, I won't come in you 
	now." . . . and my mother [says] "I don't want 
	you in there at all then. You cold fish."

	When the parents have intercourse, it not only has an adverse 
effect on the child at the time, Hubbard claims, but the results 
could be quite dangerous later in life. Hubbard says that many 
patients remember having been raped by their fathers (Freud 
came across many such cases and recognized them as fantasies). 
According to Hubbard., a preclear who remembers being raped 
by her father may be right, only she may have been in the womb 
at the time.

	To show us how bad life in the womb really was, Hubbard tells 
us the story of a man who "had passed for 'normal' for thirty-six 
years of his life." Through Dianetics treatment, they discovered 
that while the man's mother was pregnant with him, she had 
had intercourse seventy-six times with her husband (who was 
sometimes drunk) and her lover ("all painful because of enthusiasm 
of lover"). In addition, she masturbated eighty-one times ("with 
fingers, jolting and injuring

end page 34

with orgasm"), and douched on twenty-two separate occasions. 
Like most of the other mothers, she also tried AA (Attempted 
Abortion) with twenty-two surgical abortions, a couple of home-made 
jobs with paste and strong lysol. a few desperate attempts by 
jumping off a box. and on another occasion by having her husband 
sit on her stomach. In addition. she was constipated fifty-two 
times, had three colds. one case of grippe, one hangover, 
thirty-three cases of morning sickness, thirty-eight fights 
(presumably with her husband) which led to three falls, five 
incidents of the hiccups, eighteen various accidents and collisions, 
nineteen visits to the doctor, premature labor pains and ultimately 
twenty nine hours of labor. And to top it all off, she talked 
to herself, which Hubbard says gave the man even more engrams 
to work on. Hubbard tells us that this man who had had all these 
awful things happen to him while in the womb, took 500 hours 
to cure. Hubbard also said he picked the case because it contained 
"the usual problems."

	It would seem that the engram sees all, hears all, and registers 
everything, but sometimes it is incorrect. One auditor reported 
that a rash on the backside of his preclear and it was not 
stated how the auditor found out about that rash started when 
the preclear was in the womb and his mother frequently asked 
for an aspirin. The engram .was said to have accidentally misrecorded 
this as "ass burn."

	Ira Wallach, who wrote a book called Hopalong-Freud, poked fun 
at these theories in a special chapter he devoted to "Dianetics."
	Picture the mind as a refrigerator (gas or electric). Now Dianetics 
	demonstrates that part of the mind retains concepts not available 
	for immediate use or analysis. These concepts have been frozen 
	in the mind's ice tray. In another section of the mind we find 
	the crisper. The crisper keeps ideas and concepts fresh, edible, 
	and not too damp. (Green ideas should be left on the window 
	sill for a few days.)

end page 35

	Controlling both the ice tray and the crisper is the defroster

	Wallach then poked fun at the "clear" a Scientologist who has 
gotten rid of his engrams and problems-calling him a "crisp." 
He called the "preclear" a "precrisp."

	In such a patient you will find the ice tray empty, the crisper 
	full, and a dozen eggs behind the can of peaches. He is what 
	we call in diapetics, a crisp... People who have not undergone 
	therapy are precrisps... a person whose ice cubes have melted 
	to the extent that they can be moved without resort to hammer 
	and screwdriver .... Thus we can see at a glance that Diapetics 
	realizes a centuries-old dream: it is a science that explains 
	the mind.

end page 36

CHAPTER FOUR

HAVE YOU LIVED BEFORE THIS LIFE?

	It isn't a matter of believing or not believing you have lived 
	before. lt's a matter of remembering or not remembering you 
	have lived before.
	 ---from "Have You Lived Before This Life,"
				L Ron Hubbard



If the prenatal theories of Dianetics appeared startling to 
some, Scientology had something even more radical to offer past 
lives presented not as a matter of conjecture but as a matter 
of certainty. In addition to "remembering" their .life in the 
womb, Scientologists can "remember" the past lives of their 
immortal thetan or spirit, which is said to have lived in many 
bodies before ours. Hubbard used to believe that this thetan 
had existed for 74 trillion years, but he now believes it's longer. 
One Scientologist claims he fell out of-a spaceship 55,000,000,000,000,000,000, 
years ago and became a manta ray fish after having been killed 
by one. This thetan, which is said to be one-quarter to two 
inches in diameter and blind or dimsighted at first, would look 
for a new body after each death, sometimes following a woman 
who looked like she might become pregnant. Some thetans, however, 
had to go to "implant stations" to get a new body, and since 
there were more thetans than bodies, some of them had to queue 
up for as long as 22 million years just waiting.

end page  37

	Scientologists believe that the past lives and deaths of their 
thetans are the cause of some of their problems today. For example, 
Hubbard thought it possible that someone suffering from psoriasis 
(a skin disease) may have contracted it from the remains of 
the digestive fluid when the person (or his thetan) was being 
eaten by an animal in one of his past lives. If a person frequently 
clenches his jaws, or suffers from a pain there or in his tooth, 
it could be a vestige from the days that his thetan was in the 
body of a primeval clam which was having trouble opening and 
closing its shell. Hubbard said that if the pain in the jaw 
was associated with a fear of failing, then the clam might have 
been picked up by a bird.

	Hubbard believes that millions of years ago many of us were 
this same primeval clam, which he calls a "BooHoo" or "Grim 
Weeper," and if a Scientologist walks into an auditing session 
and finds that he can't cry, Hubbard said it may be "because 
he is about to be hit by a wave, has his eyes full of sand, 
or is frightened about opening his shell because he is afraid 
of being hit." The auditor may try to cure him by making him 
"run the Boo-Hoo," that is, by getting him either to "imagine 
that his eyes are in his mouth looking out" or to go through 
the physical motions of crying so he "connects" with the Grim 
Weeper or Boo-Hoo. Hubbard himself doesn't claim to have been 
a clam, but he does claim to have lived in ancient Rome a couple 
of thousand years ago, where he picked up a formula for feeding 
non-breast-fed babies. He has since passed this formula on to 
his followers in one of his may chatty newsletters.

	Scientologists spend a great deal of time during their auditing 
sessions talking and resolving their past lives. One Scientologist 
was said to have gone into a state of grief when she realized 
she had been her father's lover  before she was born. Another 
Scientologist was concerned because his wife was now living with 
another man who had once been her husband --in one of her

end page 38

previous lifetimes. A Boston cab driver and part time
Harvard student discovered during an auditing session
that his current headaches started when he was a
Roman Centurion in 216 B.C., during the Battle of
Cannae. He believes that someone from the Roman
Burial party, mistakenly believing him dead, tried to
kick his helmet back onto his head. Despite this incident
he still has his headaches, but this hasn't shaken his be-
lief in Scientology. His faith didn't falter even when one
of his Scientology friends, after spending hundreds of
hours in the group getting rid of all of his engrams and 
becoming a "clear" moved to Albuquerque and com-
mitted suicide. He attributed the suicide not to Scientology
, but to living in Albuquerque.

	Hubbard has devoted a special book called Have you
Lived Before this Life: A Scientific Survey just to past-
life case histories of Scientologists. The preface of this
book also contains the names and addresses of the peo-
ple who took part in the experiment so that the cynical
could check its facts. The names listed, however, were
not those of the preclear who had relived the experi-
ence, but those of the auditor who elicited the stories
from them and all auditors are advanced, dedicated
and believing Scientologists.

	Strangely enough, few subjects in this experiment
thought they had ever been famous in their past lives,
except for one British man who was uncertain whether
or not he had once been Lord Nelson. (The details of
his death, without even a passing reference to his good
friend Hardy, suggest that he was not.) A few people,
however, believed that they had been 'animals before
being humans in this life, and elsewhere, Hubbard told
the story of a "psychotic" girl who recovered after she
worked through an earlier life as a lion who ate its
keeper. Hubbard also said that some intelligent dogs or
horses might have once been generals or ministers of
state who were taking it easy for a life or two to cure
them of their ulcers.
	Most of the Scientologists who relived their past lives

end page 39

believed that they had once been plain people, or very often 
space people, and for plots, their histories read like a type 
of science-fiction sadomasochism. Many of the preclears believed 
that they had lived on other planets, and that the most unimaginably 
terrible things happened to them during "wars between worlds 
and celestial travel become universes whose existence was 
not even suspected before Hubbard's time," said the Australian inquiry

	One preclear remembered that when he was in another life and 
was five years old he was "already on the lookout for brothels," 
by fourteen or fifteen had learned all about "sex and homosexuals," 
and by sixteen had killed his father, baby, and captain, breaking 
up the body of the last, before finally being taken away to 
the "Zap machine" where he was decapitated and his arms and 
body placed in a space coffin. One man remembered that when 
he was in another life he was a Roman soldier who strangled 
his wife with a cord, killed a slave, was beaten across the 
face with the handle of a chariot whip and then was himself 
killed by a lion in an arena. Accounts of other past lives included: 
one man who accidentally stabbed his pregnant wife in the stomach 
with clippers, thereby killing his baby; one who intentionally 
raped and 'killed his wife; and one who somehow accidentally 
'killed his twelve-year-old daughter with a pitchfork when he 
caught her having intercourse. A sexually neurotic woman who 
refused to open her legs during childbirth, so that her baby 
had to be born while she was lying on her side, traced her problem 
back to another life in which she claimed to have been tortured 
and killed by being cut with a knife "down the center of her 
genitalia."

	Throughout Hubbard's book on other lives there is a strange repetitive 
theme of torture or excision of the eyes, a theme that can also 
be found in some of Hubbard's other writings. One person said 
his eyes had been burned out with a hot iron brand before he 
had been stretched on the rack; another said his head had been

end page 40

clamped into a metal frame had his left eye blinded with a 
hot instrument (and also his ear drums pierced): another said 
he pushed a needle through each of his eyeballs into the 
frontal lobe; and a fourth said that red hot irons had been 
thrust into his eyes while he was chained to a cross.

	Just as a preclear's life in the womb was painful, so was his 
life before. A preclear may spend as many as fifty-five hours 
on just one past life, and often undergoes a great deal of mental 
anguish in reliving it. Throughout the book there are statements 
that people had "convulsive body movements," cried a great deal 
"at the loss of her body" (in other words, her death), or protested 
that "I can't go on." But go on they must. The preclear must 
obey his auditor when the auditor tells him to "be in' that 
incident," and then 'asks him, "what part of that incident 
can you confront?" The preclear must then repeat the story over 
and over again, lifting a new detail each time, discarding portions 
of the story that don't fit, and establishing with the E-meter 
the exact date that the past-life incident allegedly occurred.

	Although the preclear sometimes views this whole task with 
something less than enthusiasm, Hubbard was so elated with it 
that he wrote of his plans to write a sequel to this book, which 
was to be called Where Were You Buried? He asked his auditors 
for help on this project by checking their preclears for recent 
deaths and then going to the place of burial and locating the 
grave and or getting the copy of the death roll from an official 
source. That this book never appeared may be attributed to a 
number of things. Perhaps Hubbard was too busy with his other 
books and projects. Maybe the auditors thought that such experimentation 
on a preclear was cruel. Possibly the preclear refused to "confront" 
the incident or give his permission for the data to be disclosed. 
And finally, maybe when the past lives were actually checked 
out by going to the grave or official source, they were found 
to be fantasies instead of memories.

end page 41

blank page
end page 42


CHAPTER FIVE

		SPREADING THE WORD

		Tell someone about Scientology. just by knowing 
		that Scientology exists, a person is better.
						 L. Ron Hubbard

	Scientologists are relentless in trying to get others to share 
their religious beliefs, and much of their proselytizing is certainly 
based on their sincere belief that Scientology has improved 
their lives and can do the same for others. But there are also 
a few mercenary motives they rarely admit to. First of all, 
the more members a particular Church brings in, the more money 
each Scientology employee receives, since their salary is based 
on units, is determined by the previous week's income. Actually 
this works out better in theory than in practice, since Scientologists 
have complained that when revenue increases, Hubbard simply 
enlarges the staff, so the}' get to see very little of the additional 
monies.

	A second possible reason for their relentless proselytizing 
is that for any individual member a Scientologist bring in, 
say a friend, he receives a five to fifteen percent cash rebate, 
usually ten percent, on whatever money that other person spends 
in the group. Even if a Scientologist decides not to double 
as a salesman, he may not have much of a choice, since some 
Scientologists have been made to sign pledges promising to "help 
Ron (Hubbard) clear this planet." Pressure has also

end page  43

occasionally been applied to people who didn't help "Ron." One 
former member reported that Scientologists were routinely questioned 
during their auditing sessions about their progress since entering 
Scientology. If they had done nothing, they might occasionally 
be punished by being made to write a five-hundred-word composition 
explaining why they hadn't spread the word. Hopefully, their 
techniques are a bit more sophisticated today.

	While Scientologists generally approach their friends and former 
acquaintances in an effort to gain converts, they are not averse 
to soliciting strangers. This is usually done by handing out 
leaflets or tickets inviting people to "step into the exciting 
world of the totally free." They have also used their books 
and brochures to lure strangers. One girl was approached on 
a Fifth Avenue bus in Manhattan by a man who handed her Dianetics; 
The Modern Science of Mental Health told her it would change 
her life, and then disappeared or so she thought. When she 
tried to get off the bus, he blocked her and demanded $5 
for the book. In another case, two Scientologists put an ad 
in the Village Voice asking $1 for a book "in a plain wrapper." 
Those who were expecting pornography were sorely disappointed. 
For they received a twelve-page brochure called "All About 
Scientology"' a booklet which is given away for free at the 
Orgs or Churches.

	Scientologists have also advertised their services in newspapers, 
under the heading of Church (in the New York Times) and sometimes 
in the classified telephone directories, under such headings 
as IQ Tests, Personality Development, and Personnel Consultants. 
In the classified Tunbridge Wells, England, area telephone directory, 
though, they accidentally appeared under the heading of "Zoo." 
Lest anyone suspect it was an intentional accident, the phone 
company explained to the paper that the Scientologists asked 
them to put their ad on the last page of the directory "and 
in this case it was possible."

end page  44

Hubbard, in his PABS (Preclear Auditor Bulletin)  suggested 
three additional ways to disseminate Scientology. In the first method
he told the Scientologists to put an ad in the newspaper 
saying "Personal counselling I will talk to anyone for you about 
anything. Phone Reverend so and so between hour and hour." 
Hubbard, however, told them not to help the person who was 
calling, because that "cancel(s) out his clientele." Instead 
he suggested that they should first credit the fact that "this 
is a pretty big problem" and then not talk to the person in 
such a way as to ease the problem. "This may be the last problem 
this person has and it would be a disservice to simply solve 
it as easily as that. One makes something of the problem, not 
makes nothing of it..."

	Hubbard may have anticipated that such methods might be questioned 
or criticized, and he seemed anxious that the press not find 
out who was behind them. He told the Scientologists:
	One does not bring the word Scientology into press interviews. 
	One simply talks about the Church, its work and immediately 
	it converses on actual cases which have been handled. I repeat, 
	it does not discuss Scientology with the press. 
But what if the press suspects anyway, and then asks 
what Scientology is? Hubbard wrote:

	... the minister should shrug and say there are lots of textbooks 
	about that and that he does not propose to teach a course in 
	an advanced science to pages of the public press [sic!I, that 
	it is the Church and the church's charitable activities which 
	are behind this, not Scientology. He should also say that today's 
	ministers are indoctrinated in many learnings and skills and 
	Scientology happens to be chiefest amongst these.

	The second method he suggested, which he and his current wife 
personally utilized, was called "Illness Researchers." Hubbard 
told the Scientologists to place an

end page 45

ad in the local newspaper that said polio victims (or arthritics) 
should call them. Hubbard suggested they sign the ad as a "research 
organization" or a "charitable organization. "When the 
people answering the ad arrived at the headquarters. they 
were given about three hours of free group auditing, and then 
later were sold individual auditing sessions.

	This technique was not calculated to endear Scientology, to the 
medical profession, but Hubbard emphasized that Scientologists 
were not offering a treatment or cure for these illnesses, but 
were just "investigating" them, and therefore the medical laws 
did not apply to them. He added that this method was acceptable 
for an auditor or minister, and that "even a ditch digger can 
look over polio or arthritis or asthma or anything else."

	"In "Casualty Contact," the third method, Hubbard recommended 
that Scientology ministers scan the newspapers for accident 
cases and obituaries and get the disabled and the relatives 
of the deceased to "join the Church for comfort." He said that 
the minister should take "every daily paper he can get his hands 
on and cut from it every story whereby he might have a preclear." 
The Minister should get the address of the person, from the 
story itself or by calling up the newspaper and saying he's 
a minister. The minister should then call the person or his 
family and represent himself "as a minister whose compassion 
was compelled by the newspaper story concerning the person," 
wrote Hubbard.

	What if the press finds out about this one? Hubbard emphasized 
that the minister should ';simply say that it is a mission of 
the Church to assist those who are in need of assistance," and 
again avoid discussing Scientology. Instead, Hubbard said 
he should "talk about the work of ministers and how all too 
few ministers these days get around to places where they are 
needed."

end page 46

CHAPTER SIX

THE ORG

	Step into the Exciting World of the Totally Free.
			--from a Scientology subway ad

	Once someone succumbs to any one of these methods,
his first formal contact with Scientology is usually at the
headquarters, or Org as they call it, for a free lecture
and film and a personality test, the first two to see if he
wants Scientology the last perhaps to determine if he
needs it. Each evening in Manhattan, a couple of dozen
people arrive for this process at the main Org, which is
located in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Martinique
at Thirty-second Street and Broadway. In the Scientolo-
gy section of the hotel, the atmosphere has been de-
scribed as similar to the Defense Department. Certain
areas are off-limits, no pictures can be taken, and one
writer was photographed during his interview from
every answer as if for a Wanted Poster." Another was
told that her story had to be "checked for accuracy" be-
fore the Scientologists would "permit it to be released."
Another writer who brought a tape recorder to an inter-
view was not only not permitted to use it, but  to add
insult to injury the Scientologists put on their own
tape recorder and recorded him. And finally, no one can
enter the Org until he writes down his name and ad-
dress, in keeping with Hubbard's order to "register
everyone even the postman."

end page 47

	From the moment he registers he may get as many as seventy 
pieces of mimeographed mail for as long as four years afterwards. 
most of this mail lives up to Hubbard's statement that quantity 
is more important than quality. Begging the Scientologists to 
remove your name from the mailing list often does no good. 
The Australians reported that if someone wrote to have his name 
removed, the Scientologists wrote them back suggesting that the 
meaning of their letter wasn't quite clear to them.

	One Manhattan actor who spent a weekend in Scientology and was 
immediately disenchanted because the night before the first 
course they had called him to take more courses tried to make 
it clear that he did not want to receive the incessant phone 
calls and letters to which a Scientology friend of his had been 
subjected. The Scientologists told him to tell this to the "Student 
Examiner," but when he did, he was hounded to reveal the name 
of his Mend. When he refused, he was "escorted" to the Ethics 
Officer, who again pressed him for the name of that friend who 
had complained about the phone calls so that they could "call 
him and talk with him about it."

	After the potential convert or to quote Hubbard, the "raw meat" registers, 
he is directed to a converted classroom to hear a Scientology 
lecture that sounds like a cross between a Jehovah's Witness 
pep talk. about the Day of Doom and the spiel of a used car 
salesman. The lecture is apparently no better in England. During 
one lecture there, the audience cheered every time someone had 
the courage to yawn or walk out. One man finally got up and 
said "if Scientology is so good, why are there not better lecturers?" 
He walked out to the loudest applause of the evening.

	After the lecture and sales pitch, potential converts are shown 
an old film of Hubbard and given the American Personality Test. 
This test was written by a Scientologist with a B. Sen., D. 
Sen., and D.D. degrees. While someone looking at this quickly 
might think she is well

end page  48

qualified to write such a test with a Bachelor of Science, 
a Doctor of Science degrees, her degrees actually stand for Bachelor 
of Scientology, Doctor of Scientology and Doctor of Divinity in 
the Church of Scientology only. The author also has a B.A, but 
that does not necessarily have an academic counterpart in Scientology 
either. One Scientologist admitted that her B.A. stood for Basic 
Administrator" and Book Auditor." To become a Book Auditor" 
she only had to buy one of Hubbard's books, apply the principles 
to someone else, and send in for her certificate.

	Sometimes the results of the personality test are presented 
to a person not so much to enlighten him as to his difficulties 
and problems as to enlighten him about what Scientology can 
do for him. While analyzing the test, Hubbard told his followers 
to make remarks such as "Scientology can influence this" or auditing 
can remedy that," etc., and added We will take full advantage 
of the superstitions of people at the level of prediction." 
Hubbard also told them that they should not precede a statement 
that a score on a particular item was low with something like 
"don't worry" because "this cancels impingement."

	In addition to "enlightening" people, the test has also been 
used to intimidate them into joining Scientology. The Australian 
Inquiry reported that one boy who took the test claims they told 
him he had a defective character, was mentally unstable, and 
would have a mental breakdown unless he joined Scientology. 
(They also suggested that he had homosexual tendencies.) When 
he refused to join nonetheless, people at the Org took turns 
for a year writing him personal letters to remind him of his 
difficulties as reflected on the test, and his need to join 
them to remedy it.

	After a person takes the test, he does not ':sign up" for a course 
in Scientology he 'joins," as author William Burrows put 
it. Anyone who does decide to join the Church of Scientology 
that night must then sign a contract, which has his name filled 
in even before he

end page 49

agrees to look at it. "If a person is on your premises
longer than five minutes sign him on a release form,"
wrote Hubbard. "If he won't sign a release, he is going,
to give you trouble so get rid of him."
The form consists of a number of questions. and while answering 
any of them falsely can result in immediate dismissal later 
from Scientology answering them truthfully will not necessarily 
keep a person in. The following is a composite of the contents 
of a few of these forms over the years: 1) They ask if the person 
has ever been institutionalized, had shock treatment, or been 
under the care of a psychologist or psychiatrist. 2) They ask 
if he has "submitted" his body to drug treatment or is addicted 
to alcohol (Scientologists cannot take marijuana, LSD, etc., 
nor are they permitted to drink, or even take aspirin, for certain 
periods of time before auditing). 3) They ask if the person 
will take and pay for additional courses or hours of the ethics 
officer tells him to. 4) They ask if the person is over twenty-one 
(otherwise he needs his parents' consent to join Scientology). 
5) They claim that a person can get his money back if he's dissatisfied 
with a Scientology course, generally within thirty days, although
he may not take any more Scientology courses after asking for 
a refund. 6) They ask if the person has a criminal record. 7) 
If he is currently receiving medical treatment. 8) If he agrees 
with the stated aims of Scientology and will not work against 
it and if he belongs to a group that is against it 9) That he 
agrees to undergo any E-meter test that he is told to take. 10) 
That he agrees to "release each and all of the above-named organizations 
and corporations and any and all employees, staff members, or 
associates thereof from all liability from any consequences 
resulting from training, education, or processing practices 
and methods used by Scientology

	After signing this, and paying for the first course, one becomes 
a Scientologist. And as Hubbard often says about that state 
of affairs, "May you never be the same again."

end page 50

CHAPTER SEVEN

		THE SEA. ORG

	L. Ron Hubbard, flanked by the powerful highly trained O.T. 
	of the Sea Org, has forged through gigantic barriers . . . 
	has identified the true enemy of Mankind on this planet.
				---from a Scientology mailing piece

	Hubbard himself is never at any of these home Org's
any more. He now lives on the mysterious Sea Org. a trio of 
secret ships that sails the Mediterranean. Hubbard lives on the 
flagship, the Royal Scotsman (also called The Apollo), a 3.330 
ton 320-foot converted Irish cattle ferry with LRH (L. Ron Hubbard) 
vividly painted on the funnel. LRH or Hubbard, has the title 
of "Commodore" and his beautiful twenty-two year old daughter 
Diana, who is also on board, has been given the unlikely title 
of Lieutenant-Commander. Along with them are Hubbard's present 
wife, four of his seven children from his three marriages, his 
dog, and two cars. In addition, the Sea Org is a training fleet 
for at least 200 white-uniformed Scientologists and their children 
who range in age from six months to sixty }'ears. With the exception 
of the children, the rest are said to have signed a billion-year 
contract with Hubbard (presumably to include their thetans in 
future lives) to help him help the world. To accomplish this 
goal, Scientologists not only work for Hubbard gratis, but it 
appears that they may even pay to be on the boat, as many of 
them

end page  51

there are in training to become Operating Thetan VIII  the 
highest level in Scientology and to reach that level costs 
a few thousand dollars more than it does to become a clear." 
Their dedication is reflected not only financially. Sea Org Scientologists 
work a difficult eight hour day and spend their evenings studying 
Scientology. Even the children on the boat work for Scientology 
as messengers.

	Life on board is hard, and punishment is strict. It is said 
that someone might be an officer one day and for punishment 
be sent to swab the decks the next The London Sunday Times carried 
an item about a wealthy Californian who was wearing an officer's 
uniform when he first arrived at the Sea Org, but for being 
late, he was given dirty blue overalls and made to work in the 
galleys.

	Although it's hard to figure out why any country would complain 
about a ship full of hard working people at her ports, at least 
one country was sufficiently displeased with them to kick them 
out of their Harbour on twenty-four hour notice. In Corfu, Greece, 
where the Scientologists were said to be spending about S1500 
a day for provisions and boat repairs, it would seem that the 
government had Little to complain about. But after seven months 
there, the Minister of the Interior kicked them out. He gave 
no reason except that they were declared ';undesirable."

	The country may have been displeased with the strange behaviour 
of those living on the Sea Org. Local people complained about 
seeing Scientology children of eight or nine years old being 
made to walk the plank into the Aegean, and one Scientology 
publication depicts a similar punishment that was meted out 
to an older member. (It is not known who saves them, but since 
Scientologists have jobs for everything Director of Success, 
Letter Registrar, etc. maybe they have a "Rescue Registrar.") 
On another occasion, locals reported that twenty-four Scientologists 
left the ship one day and marched half a mile along the quayside 
in "military step"

end page 52

 wearing no raincoats despite the pouring rain. 
One outsider, Captain John Jones, reported to a London newspaper 
some of the things that happened while he was sailing with one 
of the smaller ships. ",The crew were sixteen men and four women 
who wouldn't know a trawler from a tramcar," he allegedly stated. 
He complained that he was made to run the ship according to 
the Sea Org Book and that electrical equipment, other than lights, 
radio and direction finder, and other advanced equipment he 
had on board could not be used. (Probably because the Scientologists 
feared it would interfere with the functioning of their E-meters.) 
He reported that "using the Org Book navigation system based 
on radio beams from the B.B.C., and other stations we were soon 
hopelessly lost."

	Mystery surrounds the ship. Hubbard is said to sleep during 
the day, rise at 6 P.M. and is almost never seen outside. Most 
of the people on the boat don't see him either, except for his 
personal staff and officers. The latter have meetings with him 
upon written request. Outsiders are not even sure exactly where 
on the boat Hubbard lives, although one reporter suspected it 
was in the middle of the upper part of the deck where "a corridor 
leads to what few cabins there are with a notice forbidding 
entry." It is said that most of the other people sleep in dormitory-like 
accommodations. Captain Jones, mentioned before, said the men 
and women on his ship shared the same quarters with only a blanket 
dividing the sections.

	Hubbard also keeps the purpose of the ship well hidden. Although 
he initially admitted that the Sea Org was established as a 
mobile headquarters for setting up new bases or correcting old 
ones, he now seems to want people to think they're all there 
for "exploration" not Scientology. The stationery used by the 
ship is imprinted with "The Hubbard Exploration Company Ltd." 
(no address given). One spokesman for the ship said its purpose 
was "basically to search for oil and gas in the Mediterranean 
and elsewhere," and in one communique,


end page 53 

Hubbard stated the ship was in Greece "to explore and study 
the decline of ancient civilisation and so [learn] how this 
current one is going," Hubbard has even denied to interviewers. 
in the earlier days when he talked with them, that the ship 
or he was connected to Scientology although Telex reports from 
Saint Hill were directly in front of him.

	Another mystery concerns Linda Hicks, a very beautiful twenty-two-year-old 
British blond who joined the Sea Org and then disappeared. Her 
father, who had a heart condition, claimed that his only daughter 
had initially become involved with Scientology in Las Palmas, 
and that when he saw her afterwards, "she... dyed her fair hair 
black... she was filthy, and her mind seems to have gone off 
the rails." The News of the World, which printed the story, 
said that Linda allegedly sent the letter below to her boy friend 
at home, saying she had been hypnotised on the Sea Org and had 
been married without conscious consent to another Scientologist. 

	Darling Oscar
	So many terrible things have happened to me since I waved 
	good-bye to you at Palmas. Oh why didn't you MAKE me leave 
	that boat, Oscar? Did you know what was happening to me? l 
	honestly didn't know.

	But I feel sick for you in Las Palmas ---do you
	feel that way for me now? Was it holiday romance or will 
	you always love me, how I love you?

	Darling what did those people do to me. They 
	changed me, you... saw it, why didn't you make me leave?

	They make people's minds sick, they influenced me, they tried 
	to make me change against you.

	I became sick and hysterical and they put me on one of those 
	machines [probably the E-meter] Then someone talked for two hours 
	to me. [The News of the World reported a reference here to her 
	marrying one of the boys on the boat.]

	I can't remember very much about it, except

end page 54

	that after two days at home I began to change
	back to the old "Mummy" that you loved and
	started to remember ---things they were evil.

	Oh my darling, what a terrible mistake l
	made...

	After Linda's father saw this letter, he went to the Sea Org 
with a News of the World reporter to try to locate his daughter. 
But neither were able to board the ship, reach Hubbard, or find 
Linda. A Scientologist on deck said that Linda had had a "beautiful 
romance" with a fourth mate on the 414-ton Sea Org trawler, 
the Avon River. The next day, the Scientologists allegedly issued 
a statement to the reporter saying that Linda's parents favoured 
another suitor and insisted their daughter leave her husband. 
They also stated that the parents wanted her removed and sent 
to a psychiatrist for electric shocks (a favourite accusation 
of the Scientologists), and that Linda, fearing kidnapping, 
left the ship and fled. They added that the parents "detest 
Scientologists and tried to use Scientology as an excuse to break 
up the marriage."

	What happens on the Sea Org may forever remain a mystery, since 
those on the ship stay for quite a while and have little or 
no contact with their friends and family back home. One story 
did leak out, however, that adds to the intrigue. It suggests 
that although joining the Sea Org may be voluntary, leaving 
it may not always be. When one of the Sea Org ships was docked 
in Corfu, the London Times reported that a number of people 
on shore had seen a female Scientologist and her two children 
attempt to run off the boat screaming and they then saw her 
dragged back in by uniformed Scientologists on the ship before 
she could reach the roadway. The Harbour master in Corfu, a friend 
of Scientology, said he saw "no reason for an investigation."

end page 55

blank page
end page 56


			CHAPTER EIGHT

	THE BRITISH .AND AUSTRALIAN ORGS

	If Britain acts, then you must know that the hour is late.
					 -South African minister
					    of health urging their
				Parliament to have an Inquiry

	In England, the main Scientology Org is "Saint Hill," a 243-year-old 
fifty-seven-acre estate in East Grinstead, Sussex, that was 
formerly the home of the Maharaja of Jaipur, and before that, 
Mrs. Anthony Drexel Biddle. When Hubbard arrived there in 
1959, he joined right into the spirit of things, becoming East 
Grinstead's Road Safety Organizer. One paper reported that he 
attended only one meeting, telling how Americans reduce car 
accidents, and suggested they use schoolboy campaign patrols. 
After that, he sent his ideas through a local press office.

	During these early days, Hubbard was said to have gotten up 
at Hyde Park's Speakers Corner, to have grown giant radishes 
which he said had been exposed to X-rays, and to have invited 
a local journalist to Saint Hill to tell him of his theory that 
plant life can feel and think. If Hubbard really believed this, 
he apparently didn't care what the plant felt or thought, since 
he promptly attached the plant to an E-meter, stuck pins into 
the plant, tore off its leaves, and reduced it to a ruined stump. 
Unlike the plant, Scientology and Hub-

end page  57

bard thrived in the mysterious manor. Scientology however, 
has not been accorded, or at least permitted, the same religious 
status in England as in America, since the British Registrar 
General refused to register Saint Hill as a place of worship 
under the Place of Worship Registration Act. ("While Scientology
may be wholly admirable, I find it difficult to reach the conclusion 
that it is a religion.") So Hubbard has had to be happy with 
running a college, "controlling the operation," as he said in 
one interview, and sending his decrees, politics, etc., by Telex 
to his Orgs and franchises in five continents while collecting 
his ten percent and more. But things began to sour, and some 
time after Hubbard left England to establish the Sea Org, he 
was barred from returning to the country. He says this was because 
the government didn't like his books. "I have committed no crime," 
he said, "except writing about helping people to be happy. Mr. 
Caltahan [who probably barred him] doesn't like people to be 
happy obviously."

	Although the British did not seem to object to Hubbard's books-or 
to making people happy many complained about the Scientologists 
themselves, who were allegedly passing out their literature 
at Rugby matches held in aid of the blind, letting school children 
distribute Scientology propaganda, and sending out letters soliciting 
children from six to fourteen years old as members. Some of 
the biggest outcries against Scientology came from the town 
of East Grinstead, where right from the beginning, the local 
residents were upset over the enormous number of people entering 
and leaving Saint Hill manor which was registered as a residence. 
But Hubbard, even three years after he arrived there, insisted 
he had only his personal staff at the manor and allegedly stated 
"I guess they ... noticed all the traffic. There's been a 
lot of excitement here. I've discovered a kind of psychological 
treatment which would make people live twenty to twenty-five 
years longer."
The traffic increased and so did the antagonism. The

end page 58


townspeople were worried that their children might become Scientologists, 
perhaps justifiably, since they and their children were constantly 
being solicited to join Scientologists allegedly said they 
planned to make East Grinstead the first "clear town." School 
officials complained that they couldn't even let the children 
go outside without encountering Scientologists. Some complained 
that they didn't even have to go outside to be bothered by 
them. One nun stated that Scientologists entered her school 
grounds and tried to talk to the students. She-got rid of them 
once by mentioning the word "police," and on another occasion, 
she claimed, a Scientologist put his foot in the door and she 
stomped on it. Some of the local residents complained that they 
too didn't have to go out of their houses to encounter the Scientologists, 
who supposedly called them at their homes and said, "I am your 
local Scientologist. Is there anything you need?"

	There were also some Scientology scandals in the town: "death 
lessons" (to be discussed later) and a scandal in December of 
1967, when a number of Scientology children were picked up for 
shoplifting, and a girl who was taking a Scientology course 
was accused of immoral behaviour. The News of the World, which 
broke the story said that a fifteen-year-old girl who was 
taking a Scientology course was found asleep near East Grinstead 
with three men in a scrap metal truck. The next day, the girl 
allegedly admitted that she had had intercourse with three boys, 
once with a man she met at a youth club, the second time at 
a party where she said she got very drunk, and the third time 
with a gipsy, one of the men found with her in the truck. Their 
being Scientologists or children of Scientologists may have had 
nothing to do with their behaviour, but Scientology was condemned 
nonetheless.

	Another scandal in England which indirectly involved Scientology 
occurred in 1964. At that time, two Scientologists, Mary Ann, 
an illegitimate daughter of a Scots mill worker, and Robert 
de Grinston, a Scientolo-

end page 59

gist, met in Scientology married, and then left the Scientology 
movement. They began their own group, which they called the 
"Process," although it was nicknamed "The Mindbenders" by others. 
and incorporated a number of Scientology ideas. including 
the E-meter. Instead of worshipping Hubbard. members of the 
Process worshipped Mary Ann de Grinston, and many of the members 
truly believed she was God, a delusion that Mary Ann and her 
husband did nothing to discourage. Mary and Bob lived upstairs 
in their large home, above the other members who were living 
five to six to a room. When they came downstairs, the Sunday 
Telegraph in England described, "They descended like Gods. She 
was the resident deity. He her consort." Members were so anxious 
to please and emulate her, that when she bought an Alsatian dog, 
everyone else in the group did also. By 1966, the Process had 
moved, Alsatian dogs and all, to Mexico, where they were living 
in "paradise," according to them, with no gas, electricity, 
sanitation. water, or beds, at a cost of approximately $8 a 
day divided among fifteen people. In England, the Daily Express 
estimated that over two hundred people had been involved with 
the Process at one time or another, and that at least three 
had suffered nervous breakdowns.

	Although the article in the Daily Express suggested that the 
group had dissolved, its obituary was written prematurely. 
On September 14, 1969, the Sunday Mirror in England reported 
that three Americans "with large dogs" were sailing on the Queen 
Elizabeth II to join the Process now called "The Final Church 
of Judgement." Apparently the Process is still thriving in 
England. Only now it is obviously Robert who is the worshipped 
one. He is called "The Christ of Carnaby Street." In addition 
to deifying him, the group worships Satan, Lucifer, Jehovah 
and Christ, who are all regarded as having equal status. The 
group also worships sex, and the Sunday Mirror reported that 
their magazine, The Process contained articles probing all types 
of per-

end page 60

versions, stating "let no so-called sin, perversion and depravity 
escape your searching senses, participate in all of them to 
overflowing." They also suggested a few, such as sex in an alleyway 
with people walking in the nearby street. intercourse with a 
cripple or halfwit. flagellation, necrophilia. sex in a cemetery, 
and Black Mass. which is to be finished by "Divine degradation."

	But one of the biggest Scientology scandals in England occurred 
in 1967. The Scientologists took a girl into the group, Karen 
Henslow, who had been in psychiatric institutions three times 
during her life (although the Scientologists claim they do not 
take people who have a history' of institutionalisation.) Miss 
Henslow had a relapse while in Scientology (See Chapter 21)

	The British finally began to look into Scientology and 
into the complaint letters received by the British Minis- 
try of Health Mr. Peter Hordern, MP of Hersham, who 
had originally brought up the case of Karen Henslow in
Parliament, asked the Minister of Health, then Kenneth
Robinson. to conduct an inquiry into Scientology 
although Robinson decided not to do so at the time, he
did make some rather unflattering statements about the
Scientologists. Robinson said that they "direct them-
selves to the weak, the unbalanced, the immature, the
rootless, and the mentally or emotionally unstable," and
that their "authoritarian principles . . . are a potential
menace... to the personality and well-being of those so
deluded as to become its followers." Although he 
regretted that he had no power under the existing laws to
prohibit the practice of Scientology, he said that "the
government has concluded that it is so objectionable
that it would be right to take all steps within its power
to curb its Forth." In return, the Scientology newspa-
per Freedom has made some rather unflattering state-
ments about Kenneth Robinson and his association with
the National Association of Mental Health, which they
believe is part of a vast conspiracy against them.
One step Robinson took to curb the growth of

end page 61

Scientology was to make the "Hubbard College of Scientology 
no longer an educational establishment. This meant that foreigners 
and commonwealth citizens could no longer enter England to study 
(or work) there. nor would those who were already there be 
given extensions. David Gaiman, the Scientology spokesman 
in England. called this move "another example of ill-intentioned, 
diabolic, pompous, official bumbledom", and said later, "We 
are certainly no worse than other minority groups like Jehovah's 
Witnesses or Plymouth Brethren... at this rate [they] will turn 
around tomorrow and without giving any reason ban Roman Catholics."

	Although this policy of barring Scientologists was rigidly enforced 
at first (and an entire plane load of American Scientologists 
was turned back), Scientologists report that enforcement has 
been rather lax lately. Perhaps that's because the British have 
decided to take even more drastic steps. An inquiry. into the 
Scientology organization is currently under way.

	The decision to set up this inquiry was announced in the House 
of Commons on January- 27, 1969, by Mr. Richard Crossman, Secretary 
of State for Social Services, who also stated that Sir John Foster, 
QC, would conduct the inquiry. In view of what was called in 
Parliament the " assassinations" perpetrated by the 
Scientologists against those who have previously attacked them 
(especially in Australia, where the Scientologists were even 
said to have sent agents out after those who opposed them), 
Sir John Fosters job is not an enviable one.

	Mr. Crossman also stated at that time that Sir John Foster would 
take evidence for this inquiry privately, and that the witnesses 
would not be on oath. because the "kind of evidence we want 
will come from people of a nervous nature, who will not face cross-examination 
or any public examination." The Scientologists countered this 
statement by saying that if they wanted evidence from people 
of a nervous nature "this immediately

end page 62

precludes Scientologists who are happy, relaxed, and purposeful."

	While a private inquiry. with no cross-examination
and on oath, may not be in keeping with most people's idea of 
English jurisprudence, Mr. Crossman explained why he chose 
an inquiry of this sort. It can be assumed that his final metaphor 
was an unintentional slur to the Scientologists.
	Unfortunately, the choice is very limited for the government. 
	We either have to have a formal inquiry under the Tribunals 
	of Inquiry Evidence ... Act... or we have to have the sort 
	which I have proposed. I thought that to use the former would 
	be to take a sledgehammer to crack a nut. 

	The Scientologists stated their opinion of this inquiry, 
and its nature, in Freedom.
	To take executive action against a Church banning Scientologists 
	from coming into the country and then seven months later hold 
	an inquiry to provide, if it can be found, the evidence to justify 
	the action is to find guilt without any trial to accept 
	gossip, privately and not on oath may be alright [sic.] to handle 
	a problem in Bognor Rejs, but it is not ethical to conduct a 
	private smear campaign against 150.000 people in the British 
	Isles. This is the way a witch hunt begins, this is the 
	way a police state gets into operation, and this is the way 
	in which men, Callagan, Crossman and Robinson attempt to back 
	up their poor faulty judgment and faulty decision taken in 
	the full glare of worldwide publicity because they haven't 
	the Face to admit they were wrong in the first place. This is 
	gross misuse of Ministerial Office. 

	The article also implied that all this was part of a "conspiracy" 
against Scientology, and in a later issue of Freedom, they revealed who was 
part 
of this "Anti-Scientology Organization Chart" and "Electric Death 
Camp Utopia." They named seven countries with the National Association 
of Mental Health in the forefront

end page  63

of almost all of them, and in England, they also implicated several 
members of Parliament, Dr. Russell Barton, a prestigious British 
psychiatrist, and the News of the World and the Daily Mail. 
Both of these papers have written a number of negative articles 
on Scientology and Hubbard. and a couple of issues cast doubt 
on both his qualifications and his sanity.

	The English Scientologists have recently made a number of moves 
to help polish their tarnishing image. They ended some of their 
more criticized policies, such as security checking and "disconnecting" 
(to be discussed later). They also opened Saint Hill Manor to 
outsiders, for what David Gaiman said would be "rather like 
a vicarage tea party." He promised donkey and pony rides for 
the children and Scientology films and cartoons for the adults. 
John McMasters, the first clear (who is also Hubbard's very 
eloquent personal spokesman), would speak, and soft drinks (no 
alcohol) would be served. David Gaiman stated that Mr. Robinson 
was invited, but that he wrote saying he was unable to attend.

	In addition, Scientology have actively started promoting Dianetics 
again, perhaps in anticipation of a prohibition of Scientology, 
or possibly to partially dissociate themselves from Scientology 
while it is getting negative publicity. Although Scientologists 
have boasted that the publicity has actually helped them, certain 
things suggest that while this may have been true initially ,(and 
there may have been an initial influx of curiosity-seekers who 
came to find out what all the fuss was about), in the long run 
the publicity may not have done them much good. One would expect 
that if it really had increased their number, the Scientologists 
would be anxious to identify themselves and their services with 
the group that was getting the publicity. Instead, they are 
now emphasizing Dianetics. Last summer, there was no mention 
of Scientology in their entire Tottenham Court Road bookshop 
and the only books and signs around were about Dianetics. (The 
Scientologists, how-

end page 64

ever, seemed to have forgotten to pull down their markee. which 
said "Scientology on it.) They are also attempting, perhaps, 
to win back some of their critics, such as members of the medical 
profession. Toward this last goal. one recent issue of Freedom, 
which for the first time promoted Dianetics instead of Scientology 
said that people who are sick must receive medical attention 
before starting on Dianetics. However, the statement that "Dianetic 
Counsellors work very closely with Doctors in England" would 
perhaps make many doctors livid.

	Scientologists have reason to be concerned right now. If the 
British Inquiry' has the same results as the Australian one (and 
it could be even worse for them, since at the Australian Inquiry, 
Scientologists were permitted to be present, witnesses were 
on oath, and they were cross-examined), Scientology could be 
banned in England as well. Scientologists are understandably 
bitter about the Australian Report. It is an incredible denunciation 
of the Scientologists, and even says that they have "no worthwhile 
redeeming features." Almost every paragraph of the report is 
a criticism. Where evidence could perhaps have been interpreted 
equivocably, either for or against them, it was consistently 
interpreted against them.

	Hubbard is extremely hostile to the report. According to the 
Sun, in England, he claims he was forbidden to appear at the 
Inquiry, and that no testimony or witnesses on his behalf were 
heard. According to the Inquiry, many of the witnesses were 
Scientologists and the Scientologists were represented until 
they voluntarily withdrew. The Board also claimed that they 
repeatedly invited Hubbard to attend but that he failed to do 
so. They felt he stayed away purposely so as to have something 
to criticise the Board for. They also believed that he didn't 
appear because if he had taken the stand and repudiated his 
writings, he would have appeared deceitful, and if he had not 
disowned them, he stood "condemned by their content." Hubbard, 
by the way, has

end page 65

been invited to testify at the British Inquiry. So far he 
has failed to show.

	Scientologists believe that they were condemned in Australia 
because various prosecution witnesses "connived to produce hostile 
evidence." Furthermore they claim that only four witnesses 
said Scientology hadn't helped them, and that they have "affidavits" 
which show that "one of these was a blackmailer, the second 
a professional car thief, the third was brainwashed by the first 
two, and the last was intimidated by terrorism." Since 151 
witnesses testified, the Scientologists argue that if only four 
people said Scientology hadn't helped them, Scientology is 97.351 
percent effective. They also argue although they claim they 
are not a form of therapy that psychiatry is only twelve percent 
effective with eighty-eight percent "maimed for life or dead."

	Actually the Scientologists may be correct in stating that only 
four people specifically, stated that Scientology, hadn't helped 
them, but a number of witnesses said things about Scientology 
that made them look a lot worse than that, and a great deal 
of written testimony was introduced that was even more damaging 
to them than the verbal statements. In addition. among the 151 
people that Scientologists said were helped by Scientology
, many were expert witnesses in science, physics, medicine, 
psychiatry, etc., who presented evidence, more often against 
than for Scientology. (The reader also should not get confused 
over the Scientologists' numbers. One hundred fifty-one witnesses 
gave testimony at the Australian Inquiry and this was explicitly 
stated in the report. The Scientologists seem to think it was 
155, because they keep talking about the 151 witnesses for Scientology 
plus the four against it. Some of their other arguments against 
this Inquiry - also suggest that those who are most outspoken 
against it, did not read it very carefully.)

	Finally, the Scientologists also argue that the report is 
unfair because the psychiatrists who testified against

end page 66

Scientology were incapable of judging it inasmuch as they had 
never personally treated a Scientologist. But Scientologists are 
not permitted to undergo psychiatric treatment, so few psychiatrists 
would have had the opportunity to treat them. In addition. many 
of these psychiatrists read transcripts or descriptions of 
sessions so they had something to base their opinions on. (It 
appears that some may have also watched the sessions through 
a two-way mirror.) And finally, to say that psychiatric opinion 
on the merits of a certain type of treatment is worthless 
because the psychiatrists hadn't personally treated the person 
involved is not much different from saying that a ballistic 
expert cannot be called in a court trial because he didn't personally 
know the man who shot the gun.

	One thing no one can argue about --a lot of testimony was produced. 
Kevin Andersen, QC, now Justice Andersen of the Supreme Court 
of Victoria spent 160 days listening to four million words totally 
8,921 pages of testimony, or, as the Scientologists put it "not 
much shorter than the Nuremberg trials." Some of this was condensed 
into a very-difficult-to-obtain (fortunately for the Scientologists) 
201-page report, which makes repeated references to the depravity 
and perversions they claimed existed in the Scientology movement. 
(It also keeps promising that more information on this will 
be included in Appendix 19, and so the fingers eagerly fly to 
the back of the report only to discover with much sadness that 
there is no Appendix 19. It was not included
because the various members of the government
considered it to be "obscene.")

	On the basis of the testimony, the report concluded I
that "Scientology is evil; its techniques evil; its practice 
a serious threat to the community, medically, morally
and socially; and its adherents are sadly deluded and
often mentally ill." The Victorian Parliament accepted
Andersen's conclusion that Scientology was the
"world's largest organization of unqualified persons
engaged in the practice of dangerous techniques which

end page 67

masquerade as mental therapy," and passed the 1965 "Psychological 
Practices Act." This Act, among other things. makes teaching 
Scientology, applying it, or even advertising it punishable by 
up to $500 and two years in jail.

	But Scientology seems to be making a comeback in Victoria right 
now since they are holding "religious services" for approximately 
sixty-five people a week in an unmarked house that is said to 
contain a "chapel," along with the usual pictures of Hubbard, 
books by Hubbard, Scientology charts and a small box in the 
entrance asking for donations for Scientology expansion.

end page 68

		CHAPTER NINE

	ATTACKING THE ATTACKERS

	People who live in tin houses shouldn't throw can openers.
							 L. Ron Hubbard

	The Scientologists have not taken any of their attacks or setbacks 
lightly. Although the Church of Scientology creed states that 
"all men have the right to think freely, to write freely, their 
own opinions and to counter or utter or write about the opinions 
of others," in the past, this has not applied to anyone who 
wished to think, speak or write against Scientology. 

	Many newspapers and magazines in America, England and Australia 
which printed articles on Scientology ran into legal problems 
with the Scientologists, and in England it was estimated that 
fifty-eight writs had been issued by the Scientologists. Mr. 
Peter Horden spoke out against this in Parliament in March 
of 1967. saying: "The public has been hampered in the knowledge 
of Scientology by the fact that so far as I can establish, on 
every occasion that the organization has been named by a newspaper, 
that newspaper has been sued with a writ for libel." In September 
of 1968, the Scientologists issued a writ of libel on him.

	Obviously this stifles freedom of the press, and the Scientologists 
have admitted that they will "sue at the slightest chance" to 
discourage the media from mentioning Scientology. Hubbard wrote:

end page 69

	We do not want Scientology to be reported in the press anywhere 
	else but on the religion page of newspapers. It is destructive 
	of word of mouth to permit the public press to express their 
	biased and badly reported sensationalism. Therefore we should 
	be very alert to sue for slander at the slightest chance so 
	as to discourage the public press from mentioning Scientology

	Scientologists are quick to sue not only those who write against 
them, but also those who speak against them, and some of their 
suits have been contradictory and amusing. When Dr. Russell 
Barton (the British psychiatrist mentioned in the previous chapter), 
spoke out against them on a television program, he received 
a letter suing him for the statements he made "on February 31st." 
If the Scientologists had acted with less haste, perhaps they 
would have had time to remember that there are only twenty-eight 
days in February. In another case, the Scientologists had several 
outstanding writs against some of the members of the East Grinstead 
Council, but approached them nonetheless for help in a housing 
development. In a third case. after serving a writ of libel 
in England on Geoffrey Johnson Smith, they asked Smith for "support 
and advice" about a housing estate they wanted to build in East 
Grinstead. This last case by the way, one of the few that Scientologists 
ever took to court, had some recent disastrous effects for the' 
Scientologists. They lost this libel case on December 22, 1970, 
and were ordered to pay court costs that are estimated at close 
to $200,000.

	The Scientologists attitude toward litigation is in keeping with 
Hubbard's philosophy that "the DEFENSE of anything is UNTENABLE. 
The only way to defend anything is to ATTACK." Fortunately for 
the press, they have decided to start attacking other institutions, 
and they withdrew thirty-eight of their cases against newspapers 
in England in November of 1968, "in celebration of the fact that 
we now 'know who the enemy really is." Not that their suing 
policy is over.

end page 70

In fact. on September 30. 1970, it was reported in the New York 
Post that the Scientologists were suing Delacourt Publishers 
and author George Malko for a book they did on Scientology. (The 
Scientologists also announced that they had hired Melvin 
Belli. the famous flamboyant attorney who once unsuccessfully 
defended Jack Ruby for their case.) But in addition to suing 
the press. they, are now also suing psychiatric organisations, 
and they claim to have filed, or be about ready to file, over 
$75 million worth of law suits in that department.

	In addition to suing those who attack them. Scientologists have 
subjected their enemies to a campaign of vilification. Members 
of Parliament who have spoken out against them have been accused 
by the Scientologists of bribery, corruption. and even "of 
following the order of a hidden foreign group that... has as 
its purpose seizing any being whom they dislike or who will not 
agree and permanently disabling and killing them." And to support 
their suspicions about people who attack them, the Scientologists 
have hired detectives to investigate these people.

	Hubbard wrote that since Scientology, had found out the basic 
fundamentals of man and the universe, "How much easier then 
to find out the secrets or histories and motives of one person 
or group?" In that same pamphlet, "Why People Fight Scientology," 
he also claims that they have "investigated thousands of such 
protesting persons." Lest an outsider get the wrong idea, Hubbard 
elsewhere assured them that Scientology was not a "law enforcement 
agency." But, he added, they would become "interested in the 
crimes of people who seek to stop us. If you oppose Scientology
we will promptly look up and will find and expose your crimes 
those who try to make life hard for us are at a risk."

	One type of investigation Hubbard suggested was what he called 
"noisy investigations." He wrote in 1966 that if someone gave 
Scientology trouble, "find out where he or she works or worked... 
and phone 'em up and say 'I am investigating Mr./Mrs. for criminal 

end page 71


activity's and he/she has been trying to prevent man's 
freedom and is restraining my religious freedom and
that of my friends and children, etc.'"

	" But it appears that the Scientologists' investigations are 
not confined to phone calls. They have made no attempt to hide 
the fact that they have hired detectives to investigate their 
"enemies." As early as 1955, they wrote in Ability, one of 
their newsletters, that they had hired a detective to investigate 
and "disclose any criminal past or connection" of the editor 
of a British Dianetic magazine. During the New Zealand Inquiry 
into Scientology it was also revealed that the Scientologists 
had placed an ad for an investigator in one of the local 'papers. 
The man who answered the ad later told the
Inquiry that he was told his job would be to check on people 
in New Zealand and Australia to see whether they had criminal 
convictions, debts or troubles. He claimed
he was also asked whether he had any objections to investigating 
lawyers, medical men or people in government circles.

	The Scientologists also allegedly put an ad in the Daily Telegraph 
for investigators, and were prepared to hire three of them for 
about $80 a week plus the use of a car. One man who answered 
the ad, Vic Filson, an experienced private detective, told the 
newspaper that he was first interviewed by being made to take 
an E-meter test, during which time they repeatedly asked him, 
"Who sent you here to spy on us?" Later, when they were apparently 
satisfied with him, he was allegedly told that his job was to 
investigate the activities of English psychiatrists and .prepare 
a dossier on each. The memo, which was reprinted in People, 
a British paper, read: "We want at least one bad mark on every, 
psychiatrist in England, a murder, an assault, or a rape or more 
than one. This is Project Psychiatry. We will remove 
them." Fitson was also told that his first job was to investigate 
Lord Balneil, then Chairman of the National Association of Mental 
Health and one of the men who had asked Kenneth Robinson to 
investigate Scientology.

end page 72

The reason the Scientologists may have investigated those who 
have spoken out against them is that they firmly believe that 
those who attack Scientology are committing crimes themselves, 
which they are afraid the Scientologists will discover. Hubbard 
said that if someone called Scientology a "cult" or a "hoax.",
what they were really saying is "please please please don't 
find me out." Hubbard also said that if someone urged a Scientologist 
to leave the group or told him not to study Scientology "it should 
be answered by no praise of Scientology but by asking 'What 
have you done?' and demanding that the protesting person go 
to the nearest [Scientology] center for a case assessment."
Hubbard suggested one simple, perhaps simplistic way to uncover 
a person's crime with the following sample dialogue:
  George: 	Gwen, if you don't drop Scientology I'm going to leave you.
  Gwen: 	(savagely) George, what have you been doing?
  George: 	What do you mean?
  Gwen: 	Out with it. Women? Theft? Murder? What crimes 
		have you committed?
  George: 	(weakly) Oh, nothing like that. Gwen what then?
  George: 	I've been holding back on my pay. 
Sometimes the "crimes" are less innocent than that. Hubbard wrote:

	Politician A stands up on his hind legs in Parliament and brays 
	for a condemnation of Scientology. When we look him over we 
	find crimes embezzled funds, moral lapses, a thirst for young 
	boys-sordid stuff.

	Wife B howls at her husband for attending a Scientology group. 
	We look her up and find she had a baby he didn't know about.

	Another reason Hubbard believes that people attack Scientology
(in addition to hiding their own crimes), is because Scientology 
is honest, aboveboard and works.

end page 73

In what must surely be the strangest reasoning ever, Hubbard 
wrote: "If Scientology was fraudulent. if it had vast but covert 
plans, if it did not work, it Would not be fought."

	Finally, Hubbard hinted that harm would come to those who fought 
Scientology although, of course Scientology would not in any 
way contribute to the disasters. Hubbard wrote that "no serious 
harm came to any principal or good person in Dianetics or Scientology
" But on the other hand, "without any action being taken 
against them, of twenty-one highly placed attackers, seventeen 
are now dead."

	If this seems hard to believe, the way in which people who are 
against Scientology will suffer is even harder to accept. Hubbard 
wrote:

	I once told a bill collector what and who we were and that he 
had wronged a good person and a haft hour later he threw a hundred 
grains of veronal down his throat and was lugged off to hospital, 
a suicide.

end page 74

	CHAPTER TEN

	THE SUPPRESSIVES

		People don't deserve to have Scientology as a 
		divine right, you know. They have to earn it.
						L. Ron Hubbard

	Even worse than what happens to an outsider who tries to attack 
Scientology is what happens to a Scientologist who turns against 
or displeases the group. They too may be investigated, although 
in that case the investigation is quite simple. The Scientologists 
can go right to the preclear's file and his intimate secrets 
and confessions are all there. Furthermore, Hubbard made it 
clear that he wanted these secrets. "If anyone feels like leaving," 
wrote Hubbard "just examine the records and sit down and list 
everything done to and withheld from me and the organization 
and send it along. We'll save a lot of people that way."

	In a Policy Letter of April 19, 1965, Hubbard also laid down 
similar guidelines. "And, preclear blocking an Org [getting 
up and leaving] without reporting to the [Technical] [Secretary], 
[Director] of [Processing] and the Ethics section first, and 
who will not permit an auditor to handle the matter at the Org 
where the auditing occurred, must be fully investigated by the 
Ethics section at and cost."

	The following is a letter Hubbard wrote to the Secretary of 
the Melbourne Australia headquarters about a

end page  75

boy who apparently "blew an Org" i.e. left, or did something 
equally heinous:
	Horner blew up in our faces and had his certificates cancelled. 
	We have criminal background on him. Rape of a girl pc [preclear] 
	in Dallas and countless others. This will do something to [name 
	omitted]. Now I firmly believe you will be able to find a criminal 
	background this life on [two more Australian Scientologists] 
	as no such occurrence anywhere in the world has failed to find 
	one. I'd grab him when he comes in and security check it in 
	to view. Run one on [two names out]. If they won't cooperate 
	you have suspected criminal activities. It's a thrupenny push 
	now. Horner... possibly Nibs all tie in to a neat network. 
	we're pulling it apart.

	This same Horner, the one who allegedly raped a preclear, was 
once such a dedicated Scientologist that he wrote a book on the 
subject, and in it referred to Hubbard as "one of the great geniuses 
of the Twentieth Century" whose "discoveries will make possible 
a new era of living for man." In addition, the man referred 
to above as "Nibs" whom Hubbard apparently saw as part of this 
"conspiracy" or whatever is the nickname for L. Ron Hubbard 
Jr., Hubbard's own son, who was a Scientologist until he quit 
in 1959.

	The Australian Inquiry which reprinted that letter, also had 
a few comments on the veracity of the statements:

	It is now said that accusations against Horner of "criminal 
	background" and "of the rape of a girl pc in Dallas and countless 
	others" were unfounded. Subsequently... Horner returned to 
	the fold and when last heard of was a leading over-seas Scientologist 
	who probably would be extremely surprised to know of his "criminal 
	background" so irresponsibly publicized by Hubbard. There was 
	no justification for the [other] accusations . . . Hubbard was 
	merely irresponsibly asserting, as was

end page 76

	his practice, that anyone out of line with Scientology
	had a criminal or communist or homosexual background.

	It appears that few other Scientologists have gotten out of it 
or spoken against their group though. perhaps because one of 
the Scientology codes stated that no member was permitted to 
speak disparagingly of Scientology to outsiders or members 
of the press. This seems to work both ways, and in addition 
to not speaking against Scientology, Scientologists rarely listen 
to arguments against it either, and have little opportunity 
to hear both sides of the story. In fact, Hubbard told them 
never to discuss Scientology with a critic. "Just discuss his 
or her crimes, 'known or unknown. And act completely confident 
that these crimes exist. Because they do." As a concomitant 
to this, Scientologists rarely participate in panel discussions, 
perhaps because of their aversion to confrontation with critics, 
but also because Hubbard wrote them "why give some other subjects 
an audience before which it could air its views?"

	Most Scientologists are anxious to adhere to this code and not 
speak against Scientology so much so that when one alleged 
Scientologist committed suicide in England, he left a note 
saying his suicide had nothing to do with Scientology or with 
his being a member of the group. (Later on, another case will 
be presented of someone who wanted to commit suicide, but was 
afraid that if he did so it would invalidate Scientology) 
But in the past, if a Scientologist did decide to say something 
against Scientology, perhaps to publicly disavow it or report 
or threaten to report it to civil authorities, he was immediately 
declared a "suppressive person" and sometimes an "enemy of Scientology." 
A "suppressive person" was immediately dropped from Scientology 
and no Scientologist in the world was permitted to associate 
with him. (Perhaps this doesn't seem like much of a punishment 
to the reader, but remember that the Scientologist has often 
withdrawn from his former friends and family and spends his 
time mainly with Scientologists

end page 77

He may not have a job to go to since he may have left his 
job to work for the Org, and he may have
forced his former spouse and remarried someone in the group  none 
of the people can have anything to do, with him.)

	At various times the Scientologists have treated supressives 
in an even worse manner. In 1965 they were that the "homes, properties, 
places and abodes of persons who have been active in attempting 
to support Scientology or Scientologists are all beyond any
protection or Scientology ethics." In an earlier code it said ' pledge 
myself to punish to the fullest extent of my power anyone misusing 
or degrading Scientology to harm friends. "At one time an enemy 
of Scientology, was defined as someone who could be "deprived of property 
 injured by any means by a Scientologist... may be tricked, sued. 
lied to or destroyed."

	Anyone who was "connected" to a suppressive, in other words, 
anyone who knows him, no matter how vaguely, was "reviewed" and 
had to pay for this re view. If it came out that he was indeed 
"'connected," this friend or acquaintance was declared a "Potential 
Trouble Source" (P.T.S.), and also could not receive Scientology 
processing until he "handled" in other words, persuaded the errant 
person to make amends, or "disconnected" from that person, meaning 
that he too could have nothing more to do with the suppressive 
even if it was his spouse, lover, child, parent. etc. The P.T.S. 
also had to publish the fact in one of the Scientology
publications, and then take "any required civil 
action such as disavowal, separation or divorce." Since the P.T.S. 
was not permitted to talk to the suppressive, he usually disconnected 
by sending him a letter, usually on little scraps of paper and 
sometimes signed off with "love," stating that he could no longer 
have anything to do with the suppressive, and implying or stating 
that the suppressive reconsider and reform himself which meant 
taking more Scientology, courses. If the P.T.S refused to "disconnect" 
from the suppressive, he was

end page 78

 charged with "high crimes" and became a "suppressive person" 
and outcast also.

	A person did not have to be a Scientologist to be suppressive. 
In the New York Org the night watchman was
said to have been declared suppressive for his deeds that 
ranged from stealing from the petty cash box to saying 
that Scientology didn't work. Nor does the suppressive have 
to be an adult. One ten-year-old boy was declared a suppressive because 
he refused to "disconnect" from his father.

	Another Scientology, "suppressive," now an outspoken critic 
of the group, called Scientology "the beginnings of a Nazi party" 
in court, during an American tax case. Mr. Raymond J. 
D. Buckingham, a very accomplished English basso who administers 
a voice school in Manhattan, initially got into Scientology 
through one of his pupils. She agreed to give him $30 worth 
of processing  in return for an equal amount in voice lessons. At
first he was so impressed with Scientology that he convinced 
several of his students, along with his fiance to undergo auditing. 
But he began to get disillusioned when he discovered that his 
auditor was revealing personal information about him to a friend of hers, and
worse still that his fiancee's auditor (a Reverend) was propositioning 
her. When he complained about the situation to the Scientologists, 
however, they said they would speak to him about it only if 
he would agree to pay them $25 for the first session of "advice 
He agreed, but they then said they wouldn't talk to him unless 
he "disconnected" from a business partner. It seemed that the 
Scientologists had also labelled the partner a "suppressive person" 
because he was connected to a suppressive. Buckingham then had 
the incredible courage to speak against Scientology on a radio 
show, and the Scientologists countered by declaring him a "suppressive 
person, outside their protection," and "fair game." Those of 
his students who had become Scientologists (at his recommendation) 
were ordered to "disconnect" from him and also from any money 
they

end page 79

legally owed him. (This represented a loss of about $200 a week 
for him.) One of his students, a famous singer, in whom he had 
invested almost $30,000 as her agent, told him that she had 
learned in her auditing sessions that "you killed me in my past 
fifteen lives." Then she not only disconnected from him, but 
also from the arrangements he had made for her to perform: 
in summer stock theatres. The loss almost ruined him, and her 
as well, since she was fined by Actors' Equity and left the country. 
During this time, he was also receiving phone calls in the middle 
of the night from men and women threatening to kill him. And 
his fiance, who at first didn't leave Scientology and join him, 
was held in a room at the Org for four hours until she agreed 
to sign a statement saying that Buckingham had threatened to 
kill her. The story does have a happy ending. Three in fact. 
Mr. Buckingham and his fiance eventually did get married. 
The ten-year-old child who was declared suppressive four years 
ago is now one of Mr. Buckingham's voice students. And all 
three have left Scientology. (Scientology, however has not left 
them, and they still receive mail urging them to "step into the 
exciting world of the totally free.")'

	Two other stories of Scientologists who left the group did not 
have such happy endings. In the first case, the Director of 
the Scientology institute in Bulawayo, Africa, a man named John 
Kennedy, was said to be responsible for its success of Scientology
in Rhodesia. Naturally Hubbard was pleased with him, and in 
an early issue of Ability, he wrote that Kennedy and his wife 
"both 'knew which side of the E-meter is up, they respect you, 
they are Scientologists, they have goals." Unbeknownst to Hubbard, 
one of their goals was leaving Scientology and setting up a 
similar organization called the Institute of Mental Health. 
They set up headquarters in Johannesburg, and brought in a large 
number of Scientologists with them, naturally infuriating the 
other Scientologists. Kennedy died shortly thereafter in a shooting 
accident. "It is said he shot himself

end page 80

accidentally while cleaning his revolver" stated the Daily Mail 
on July 14. 1968, "but an open verdict was returned by the coroner."

	Another case of someone who displeased the Scientologists is 
shrouded in mystery and will probably always remain so. According 
to the London Observer, James Stewart, a thirty-five-year-old 
encyclopedia salesman from South Africa was suspended from Scientology 
because the Scientologists allegedly said he had a "history 
of epilepsy and as such was refused permission to continue Scientology 
trig." Robert Kaufman. a former Scientologist (whose own story 
will be presented later) was at the Edinburgh Org at the same 
time as Stewart and reported some things that happened that were 
not printed in the newspaper. He believes the Scientologists 
placed Stewart's name on the bulletin board and put him in 
a "condition of doubt" for having seizures or fits in public 
and thereby "invalidating Scientology." Kaufman was. horrified 
that someone would be punished for a physical ailment over which 
he had no control, especially since the "doubt penalty" meant 
this ill man would have had to work at menial chores for eighty 
hours straight without sleep. A few days after the man was placed 
in "doubt," Kaufman was even more upset to see the man's funeral 
and cremation notice posted on the bulletin board. A short while 
later Kaufman believes it was the afternoon he saw the funeral 
notice Kaufman was more shaken when it was announced that the 
deceased's wife had just gone up another (very high) level in 
Scientology. Kaufman's suspicion that the eighty-hour penalty 
was connected to this man's death was heightened when he returned 
home and one of his Scientology instructors told Kaufman that 
he had heard

	* Kaufman is not 100 percent certain of the man's name but believes 
	that it was Stewart. Stewart and Kaufman were in the same Org 
	at the same time. In addition, it certainly seems that the man 
	whose name Kaufman saw on the bulletin board was Stewart, because 
	it would be extremely unlikely that two men in the Edinburgh 
	Org at the same time, with their wives, were both suffering 
	from seizures, and both died at the same time.

end page 81

that the man hadn't really died at all and that it had all 
been a mistake.

	That's not what the London Observer said. They reported that 
Stewart was found dead fifty feet below a window. and that 
it was not a suicide, because the story of his death had been 
printed in the public press in Scotland where they do not print 
names of suicides, but rather incorporate them into the statistics 
of the annals of the Chief Constables. According to The Observer, 
Stewart's wife said she did not 'know how her husband's death 
occurred, "but she did know that it had nothing to do 
with Scientology."

	Not many Scientologists leave the group voluntarily. 
Most of them firmly believe in Scientology and believe that 
it is helping them. But someone who is growing a bit disenchanted 
may think twice before quitting. Any Scientologist who has ever 
been thoroughly audited has revealed a great deal of intimate 
information about himself to an auditor whose qualifications 
and ethical standards could be subject to some question. The 
Rand Daily Mail in Africa reported that an auditor told the 
South African Inquiry that he was criticized because he kept 
the files on his patients "clean." The same auditor also told 
the Inquiry that the Scientologists wanted him , to jot down 
the more "meaty" stuff people disclosed. He 'told the Inquiry 
that when he left Scientology he removed his files for fear 
of blackmail, adding that he had , often seen preclear's files 
with information circled, and with such statements as "we can 
use this" printed on it.

	Perhaps it is not surprising that he was afraid of blackmail. 
Not only is intimate information kept in files, but the contents 
of the files are sometimes discussed among Scientologists. At 
one time, these files were even accidentally accessible to outsiders. 
A former Scientologist, photographer Michael Chassid, said they 
were once kept in an unlocked area in back of the secretary's 
office in New York; in Washington, Hubbard's son said "it wasn't 
difficult for anyone of the Founding Church to gain access to 
these files;" and in England,

end page 82

the Scientologists were so careless with their records that personal 
files and documents concerning two Scientology ' P.T.S.'s were 
allegedly found in a garbage dump, read by a workman, and 
brought to the Sun, who reported the story.

	The Board in Australia stated that Hubbard himself was "not 
to be trusted to preserve confidences." They cited the case 
of a preclear who was trying desperately to get back in Hubbard's 
good graces after he had been kicked out of the group. In the 
hopes of a pardon, he abased himself by writing a letter to 
Hubbard in which he confessed to a number of sins, which "ranged 
from the stealing of five shillings from the mantle piece when 
he was six years old to very disgusting and depraved behaviour 
in adult life." The Scientologists produced this letter at the 
Australian Inquiry in an attempt to discredit this witness, 
and felt that they were justified in doing so because the confession 
was not made during an auditing session.

	In Australia, Andersen said, he found "no evidence of blackmail 
in the popular sense" but added that the existence of these 
files "containing the most intimate secrets and confessions" of 
thousands of individuals was a "constant threat." He added that 
it was "even more serious because copies of these reports are 
also held at Saint Hill Manor."

	There is no known case of any Scientologist actually having 
been blackmailed (although someone being blackmailed would not 
be very likely to admit it). But another question to consider, 
in addition to whether a person is being blackmailed, is whether 
he thinks he might be. If a Scientologist was wondering whether 
or not to leave the group and he heard his auditor discussing 
his case with a friend, as happened to Ray Buckingham, or he 
had been criticized for not recording "meaty" stuff, and saw 
files ringed "we can use this," as in the case of the South 
African witness, or if he knew that Hubbard had requested files 
of people who wanted to leave and had said to "investigate at 
any cost" some-

end page  83

one who had left. or if he knew that his files were easily accessible 
and that they could be brought out and openly discussed at any 
time, wouldn't he think that he might be blackmailed and hesitate 
to leave Scientology? Hubbard may even want preclears to think 
that their secrets might at some time be revealed. It is hard 
to interpret his statement below, which he wrote in Why People 
Fight Scientology, in any other way. After ambiguously stating 
that the E-meter can be used "in other ways than mental health," 
he wrote:

	Every professional Scientologist is bound by his "Code of the 
	Scientologist" which is more strict by far than the codes binding 
	medical doctors and psychiatrists. Clause Nine of this Code 
	is "to refuse to impart the personal secrets of my pre-clears." 
	Anyone's secrets are safe with Scientology until the person himself 
	no longer considers the matter important. (Author's Italics)

'	A fear of blackmail can keep a Scientologist as tied and 
subservient to Scientology as actual blackmail-perhaps more 
so. When someone 'knows that there is a great deal of personal 
information that could be revealed and he is led to believe 
that it might be revealed, even though no overt threat has been 
made or payment requested, he must simply sit and wait and wonder.

end page 84

	CHAPTER ELEVEN

	THE SEXUAL AND CRIMINAL SECURITY CHECK

	They keep after you, asking the same question over and over 
	again until you tell them what they want to hear. You can't 
	keep back anything. Later you realize you've spilled all kinds 
	of secrets to an almost total stranger whose character or integrity 
	you know nothing whatever about.
		 -quote from someone 
		who took the security check 
		reprinted by Howard and 
		Arlene Eisenberg in 
		June '69 Parents

	Several aspects of the auditing session make it easy for a preclear 
to reveal more to his auditor than he may have intended. The 
preclear is under the control of the auditor, he is being asked 
certain questions repeatedly and relentlessly, and he is holding 
onto a machine that he believes works like a lie detector. Thus, 
it is not surprising if the preclear loses control of some 
of his normal defenses. But in addition to the information preclears 
"voluntarily" reveal under such circumstances, Scientologists 
may fear blackmail because many have revealed extremely intimate 
information about themselves and their sexual habits during 
a so-called "security check." Here, it is not a matter of losing 
control-they must answer these questions or they can be kicked 
out of Scientology. This security check has been given

end page  85

routinely before the second level of auditing, and at various 
other times when difficulties have arisen such as when a person 
wants his money back and wants to leave the group.

	The security check was conducted by having the preclear held 
on to the E-meter with his interrogator or auditor established 
whether the meter was working 
correctly, and how the person responded to it: 
	Are you on the moon? 
	Am I an ostrich?
	Have you ever drunk water?
	Is this a security check? .

The questions then fell into three general categories, 
although they were presented somewhat randomly 
criminals, crimes against Scientology, and sexual deeds or
misdeeds. A few of the questions were designed to make people 
confess their more altruistic goals, such as "How
could you help the Org? .... Others? ....How could you
help mankind?" But these constituted less than five per-
cent of the test, and most of the other questions fell into
the category of one of the other questions, namely,
"Have you ever done anything your mother would be
ashamed to find out?"

	The criminal questions constituted the largest portion
 of the test, and the person had to reveal whether he had
 ever stolen, looted, burglarised, shoplifted, forged, 
embezzled, falsified books,-entered a country illegally,
been in prison, had a police record, been accused of
reckless driving or hit and run, told lies in court, been
paid to give evidence, committed arson, been a drug 
addict, peddled dope, committed culpable homicide,
planted a bomb, murdered, hidden a body, attempted
suicide, caused a suicide, kidnapped anyone, smuggled
anything, acted as an informer, betrayed someone for
money, speculated with somebody else's funds, threatened
anyone with a firearm or been in illegal possession
of one, plotted to destroy a member of his family, crippled
 a person, committed a misdemeanour, a felony or a
capital offence, criminally avoided taxes, counterfeited

end page 86


money, fraudulently altered or issued certificates or documents, 
and been insane or had any insanity in his family. There were 
also questions about military records, such as whether or not 
the person had ever stolen from the armed forces, been court 
martialled. deserted from military service, illegally prevented 
conscription, or been a mutineer.

	There were several questions to determine whether a person was 
secretly working for another group, such as the Communist Party
or a group considered to be hostile to Scientology, such as 
the press. They asked the person whether he had ever lived or 
worked under an assumed name, given his right name in Scientology, 
been a newspaper reporter, a spy for the police, a spy for an 
organization, divulged government secrets for pay or political 
reasons, had anything to do with communism or been a communist. 
He was also asked whether he felt communism had some good points, 
whether he had ever been a member of any group with "ideals" 
similar to those of the Communist party, and whether he knew 
any communists personally.

	There were about twenty-five questions solely concerned with 
their feelings about Scientology, Hubbard, and Mary Sue, Hubbard's 
current wife. Some of these questions were rather amusing:

	Do you think selling auditing is really a swindle? 
	Do you feel that auditing is too good for psychotics 
	or criminals? 
	Is there anything mysterious to you about an E-meter?
	Have you ever mistrusted your E-meter?
	Do you think there's anything wrong with invading a preclear's 
	privacy? 
	Do you plan to steal an Org?
	Have you ever injured Dianetics or Scientology?
	Have you ever written then destroyed critical messages to L. 
	Ron Hubbard? 
	Have you ever had sex with any other student or staff member?

end page 87

	Are you trying to get another student or staff member to have 
	sex with you? 
	Have you ever stolen anything from a Scientology organization?
	. Do you have anything in your possession that you
	shouldn't have? 
	Have you ever had any unkind thoughts about L. Ron Hubbard? 
	Have you ever had any unkind thoughts about Mary Sue Hubbard? 
	Have you permitted a preclear to have secrets from you? 
	Do you regard auditing as punishment?
	Are you coming on this course with the intention of killing off 
	your body, with the intention of spinning or going insane? 
	Have you ever used Dianetics or Scientology to
	force sex on someone? 

	As for the sexual questions, while the 
following list of activities at first glance would seem to cover 
the entire gamut of "sins," conspicuous in its absence are any 
questions about oral-genital or sadomasochistic activities ---and ---in 
an organization consisting of a large number of young single 
people ---fornication. 

	How do you feel about sex? 
	Have you ever raped anyone? 
	Have you ever been raped?
	Have you ever been involved in an abortion? 
	Have you ever assisted in an abortion? 
	Have you ever committed bigamy? 
	Have you ever practiced cannibalism? 
	Have you ever practiced homosexuality?
	Have you ever practiced or assisted intercourse be,-
	between women? 
	Have you ever had intercourse with a member of your family? 
	Have you ever been sexually unfaithful? 
	Have you ever committed adultery?
	Have you ever practiced sex with animals?

end page 88

	Have you ever killed or crippled animals for pleasure? 
	Have you ever exhibited yourself in public? 
	Have you ever hidden to watch sexual practices? 
	Have you ever practiced sodomy? 
	Do you collect sexual objects7
	Have you ever had anything to do with pornography? 
	Have you ever taken money for giving anyone sexual intercourse? 
	Have you practiced sex with children?
	Have you ever used hypnotism to procure sex or money? 
	Have you ever used hypnotism to practice sex with children? 
	Have you ever been a prostitute?
	Have you ever slept with a member of a race of another color? 
	Have you ever been a voyeur?
	Have you ever had intercourse after placing an-other under alcohol or drugs?
	 Have you ever coerced a servant? 
	Do you have any bastards?
	Have you ever had anything to do with a baby farm? 
	Have you ever masturbated? 

There were also questions designed to find out if there
was anything not included in the security test: 
	Are you guilty of something?
	Do you have a secret you're afraid I'll find out? 
	What questions on this check shouldn't I ask you again? 
	Have you done anything your mother would be
	ashamed to find out? 
And finally, there were also questions about how they felt 
about the security check:

	Are you upset about this security check? 
	How do you feel about these questions?
	Are my questions embarrassing?

end page 89

Is there any question the Director of Processing or
	L Ron Hubbard should have asked and hasn't? 
What unkind thoughts have you thought while I
was doing this check?
If all this seems rather traumatic, however, some of the questions 
provided unintentional comic relief:

	Have you ever coughed... during Scientology lectures?
	Are you in communication with someone who understands more about 
	Scientology than does L. Ron Hubbard? 
	Have you ever tried to act normal?

The Security Test began by having the auditor read the following 
to the preclear:
	We are about to begin a security check. We are not moralists. 
	We are able to change people. We are not here to condemn them. 
	While we cannot guarantee you that matters revealed in this 
	check will be held forever secret, we can promise you faithfully 
	that no part of it nor any answer you make here will be given 
	to the police or state. No Scientologist will ever bear witness 
	against you in court by reason of answers to this security check. 
	This security check is exclusively for Scientology purposes. 
	The only ways you can fail this security check are to refuse 
	to take the test, to fail to answer its questions truthfully 
	or if you are here knowingly, to injure Scientology. The only 
	penalty attached to failure of this check is processing or our 
	refusal to employ you or issue you a certificate, and this will 
		happen only if we find that you are trying knowingly to injure 
	Scientology. You can pass this test by 1) agreeing to take it, 
	2) answering each question truthfully, arid 3) not being a member 
	of a subversive group seeking to injure Scientology [Later it 
	stated that the person would flunk the test if they refused 
	to take it or if "any compromising or important question" 
	got a suspicious

end page 90

	reaction from the E-meter after being asked repeatedly. 

	While it's true that the auditor told the preclear that they "cannot 
guarantee... that all matters revealed in his test will be 
held forever secret," there was something that they didn't read 
to him. On this security check there was a statement by Hubbard 
which said, ".All security check sheets of persons security' 
checked should be forwarded to Saint Hill, complete with all 
markings and the reason why the question would not at first 
clear if important, or the drop mark which would not clear 
and whether or not the person passed or failed." (Italics Hubbard) 
Thus, few preclears have realized that their most intimate secrets 
were being sent to the main Scientology headquarters in England-which 
can be compared to a priest's sending copies of confessions with 
names to the Vatican.

	The person undergoing this test also had to pay for it, and 
in one case it took twenty-three hours, because no matter how 
much the person may have insisted he was telling all, in Scientology 
the E-meter is always considered to be infallible. Hubbard even 
told the auditors to have a "thorough swinish suspicion and no 
belief in mankind or the devil-only the meter."

	Reading the E-meter could be difficult though, since it can react 
in a number of ways, which Hubbard called a "Theta Bop" (dancing 
needle) "Rock Slam" (irregular motion) etc. But Hubbard said 
a fall in the needle always meant "Oh! Oh! He got me!" Thus, 
for example, if a preclear denied that he had ever practiced 
cannibalism and the needle fell, the checker had to repeat the 
question in a variety of ways until the person admitted that 
he had. But what if the person honestly hadn't practiced cannibalism, 
never thought about it, never planned to, and the meter just 
kept falling away? Rather than consider the machine wrong, 
they would try to determine whether the preclear ever practiced 
cannibalism in one of his past lives.
One of the things the Scientologists did to improve

end page  91

their image was to announce on November 29, 1968, that they 
had cancelled the security' test "as a form of confession," along 
with ending the "disconnect" policy "as a relief to those suffering 
from familial repression." "Suppressives" apparently still exist. 
but are now supposed to be dealt with by "handling" or persuasion, 
rather than "disconnecting' or ostracism.

	This is certainly a hopeful sign and may indicate a general 
change in their policy. It would be unwise to be optimistic 
too early, however, since in fie past, Scientologists have 
dropped unpopular policies and then resumed them later. For 
example, they have periodically granted amnesty to all suppressive, 
once, in celebration of John McMaster's becoming "clear"; once 
for Hubbard's birthday, etc. But later, they simply declared 
new people suppressive and resumed their policy. In fact, Ray 
Buckingham, the "suppressive" voice teacher, Was once granted 
amnesty provided he took about $200 worth of Scientology courses. 
The Australian report also discussed the Scientologists' tendency 
to change their policies or state that things were no longer 
in effect.

	The Board was told that various procedures were not now used, 
	that others were not as long or as intense as had earlier appeared... 
	even that the demonstration sessions which had been conducted 
	at the beginning of the Inquiry were not now as fully representative 
	as they had been . . . The Board was not deceived by these attempts 
	to present a watered-down picture of Scientology. Just around 
	the corner are more of Hubbard's "breakthroughs" and more techniques 
	and theories ... once this inquiry is finished there will be 
	a resurgence of all the pernicious activity' which marked the 
	progress of Scientology up to the appointment of the Board, 
	if only it can find sufficient victim to exploit.
	Hopefully the Australian Report will be wrong.

end page 92

	CHAPTER TWELVE

	THE WORLD OF SCIENTOLOGY

	Suzie saw the pc well into the PT and practically collapsed 
		on the missed W/H.
		---bulletin by Hubbard explaining what he and 
		his family were currently doing. (What this 
		seems to mean is 1) Suzie is Hubbard's 
		wife and sometimes acts as his auditor. 2) pc is 
		preclear or someone being audited; in this case 
		it may have been Hubbard. 3) PT means present 
		time or current problem. 4) Missed W/H means 
		missed withholds or something the person hasn't 
		disclosed to his auditor.)

	It may seem by now that Scientology is filled with fol-
lowers who dare not speak out against it and are being
held at the Orgs against their will. While the first may
be true, the second is definitely not. Although Scientolo-
gists are not permitted to speak against Scientology,
most of them don't want to, because they truly and
unquestionably believe in Scientology's principles and
practices, and sincerely want to stay there and be a part
of it. In fact, it is because of this unquestioning dedica-
tion that they react so strongly against those who try to
turn or speak against them. Most Scientologists are per-
fectly content to work for the Org, be audited or audit
others, "disconnect" or divorce themselves, if necessary
from their "suppressive" spouses or parents, remarry
other Scientologists, and bring their own children into

end page 93

the group. The result is that the Scientologists have formed 
a little world of their own, a world that seems removed from 
the real one. From the moment you walk into an Org, it hits 
you like heat on a hot summer day. L. Ron Hubbard, or "Ron," 
is the unquestionable leader of this world and some of his Orgs 
are said to have an office for him just in case he should drop 
by. Although he never does, his presence is felt, seen and heard 
nonetheless. In one room, Scientologists may be listening to tapes 
of him speaking on Scientology, in the next room others may 
be doing their homework (which often consists of reading one 
of his books and sometimes writing a synopsis on it), and elsewhere, 
newcomers may be watching a movie about him. Huge posters of 
his face hang from the walls, statues of him rise from the floor, 
and photographs abound, sometimes of Hubbard in a nautical outfit 
with one of his ships as a background.

	The world of Scientology not only has its own leader, but also 
its own language, look, and behaviour. This language is so specialised 
that Scientologists have had to print a special dictionary to 
translate all their words, some of which are neologistic combinations 
of science, science fiction and mumbo-jumbo (enturbulation, 
engrams, enmest, dub-ins, etheta, rock-slams, Boo-Hoo, etc.), 
along with so many abbreviations (itsa   it is a, uncon= unconscious), 
and acronyms (PTS, PABS, LRH, SP, WOG, MEST, PC, HCO-WvV, 
etc.) that most Scientologists sound as if they're eating a metaphysical 
alphabet soup.

	In addition to their own language, Scientologists .have their 
own look and behaviour that enables a trained Scientology spotter 
to discern one easily. The giveaways are their eyes. Scientologists 
are trained to stare relentlessly in to the eyes of others and 
acknowledge everything said to them (Thank you, OK, beautiful) 
in a way that can sometimes be unnerving.

	Sexual behaviour in this world is also said to be different, 
and Hubbard has admitted that some of the Orgs

end page 94

have had sex problems. The London Sunday Times quoted him as 
saying "I know of four Orgs in all our years that have collapsed or 
nearly collapsed. And each was sex crazy." The Australian inquiry 
investigated these sexual attitudes and found that some Scientologists 
believed it was all right to seduce, say, a fifteen year old, 
because a thetan has had many sexual activities, and furthermore 
she was really over seventy trillion plus fifteen years old (and 
obviously past the age of consent). The Inquiry, also reported that 
Scientologists actual attitude towed sex was apparent in the case 
of one Scientologist who read his wife's Scientology in the course 
of office routing and discovered she was having an affair, either real or 
fantasised, 
with another Scientologist. He simply endorsed the files of his wife "lacks 
morals." The Board was also disturbed to find that abortions were 
"almost a regular coffee break topic" at the Australian Org, and they 
attributed this to Hubbard's constant mention of abortions in his writings. 
The Board also claimed to have found evidence that many of the 
staff, both married and unmarried had undergone abortions, but since 
this report was written1965 when attitudes toward such matters 
were less liberal, its importance today is questionable.

	In addition to their own language, look and morality, the Scientology 
world has its own definition of crime and punishment, with certain acts 
labelled as "misdemeanours" (e.g., refusing an E-meter check), "crimes" 
(e.g., heckling a Scientology supervisor) and "high crimes" (e.g., yielding 
a Scientologist to the demands of civil or criminal law). Scientologists 
must obey an enormous number of rules, some of which are outlines for 
them in HCO (Hubbard Communications Office) orders, which are usually 
posted on the bulletin boards. On a bulletin board in England, one 
HCO order read: "To all staff. Subject: B.O. all staffers are to wear 
a deodorant." another prohibited all Scientologists from seeing the 
movie 2001 A Space Odyssey because it "produces heavy and unnecessary 
restimulafion" (in other words,

end page 95

it will perhaps remind them of their past lives when many of 
them believed they lived in outer space). A third HCO order 
declared a person "suppressive" for likening the Sea Org to 
the Hitler regime. A last one concerned someone who was "unshaven 
and scruffy on public lines." For this, he has not only fined 
by the Scientologists and ordered to buy' a $50 suit and 
have his hair fixed, but was also told to take and pay for certain 
Scientology courses. Sometimes the notices are a bit lighter. 
One person once posted a notice on the bulletin board to tell 
the others how great he felt the moment he had paid his Scientology 
bill!

	Punishment for infractions of the Scientology rules depends 
on the crime, but it sometimes seems well out of proportion. 
While some of the punishments may perhaps have some educational 
value, like writing additional words or adding case studies 
to their thesis or even making them undergo additional auditing, 
other punishments seem to be merely humiliating. Scientology 
may be made to perform menial work, deliver a "paralysing blow 
to the enemy," admit their errors, and petition every, other 
Scientologist in the Org for forgiveness. Other punishments are 
even worse: a person may be declared "nonexistent," and may 
not be allowed to bathe, wear makeup, go to their hairdresser, 
shave, take lunch hour, leave the premises. A person may be 
put into a "condition of liability" and be confined to the premises 
with a dirty grey rag on his left arm. For a greater infraction 
a person may be put into a "condition of doubt" and confined 
or barred with a handcuff on one wrist. A person may be declared 
an "enemy" and restrained or imprisoned, have the label of "Treason" 
attached to his records, and be turned over to civil authorities 
with his "full background to be explored for the purposes of 
prosecution." Alexander Mitchell, who writes consistently interesting 
articles on Scientology for the London Sunday Times, found 
that in the basement of the Scientology Queen Street office, 
London, the Scientologists actually had a prison a tiny, padlocked

end page 96

room known as the "dungeon" where erring Scientologists were 
locked up, sometimes for several days, on bread. butter and 
water. "If a member of the staff made an accounting slip, or 
infringed on an ethics order." he wrote, "he is taken to the 
dungeon to enable him to find out where he is in Scientology." 
One Scientologist told Mitchell that after he was locked 
up for two day's. "I signed an order saying I would observe 
all regulations of the org, but they weren't satisfied. I 
was told to go on a $6 (about $14 an hour course to improve 
my ethics. I couldn't take anymore so I quit."

	Punishments administered by Scientologists are not restricted 
to erring members alone. In Tunbridge Wells, Kent, England, 
Willa Hackrnan, owner of the Harewood Hotel, decided not to 
cater to the Scientologists after they placed him in a "condition 
of liability" (which meant he would have to wear a dirty rag 
on his arm) and told him he would have to get his Scientology
customers to sign a petition of forgiveness ---all because 
he had run out of apple pie.

end page 97
blank page 
end page 98


CHAPTER THIRTEEN

CHILDREN AND CELEBRITIES

		Education is necessary because one earns 
		better after he has learned.
						 "Child Dianetics"

There are two types of people that the Scientologists are very 
anxious to attract: children and celebrities. In England, the 
Scientologists already have a number of children in the Org, 
although Hubbard wrote that "serious processing" should not be 
done before a child was five years old, "extensive Processing" 
except in very unusual circumstances, should not be done before 
he was eight, and that no child should be "forced" into the 
prenatal area until he was twelve. The youngest Scientology 
clear right now is said to be eleven, although the Scientologists 
have reported "processing" an eighteen month baby, and a baby 
who was just a few days old (by saying to him repeatedly, "Lie 
in bed. Thank you.").

	Hubbard has an extremely permissive attitude toward child-rearing: 
"So he tears up his shirt, wrecks his bed, breaks up his fire 
engine. It's NONE OF YOUR BUSINESS, he wrote. He also said in 
Child Dianetics":
	Care for the child? nonsense! He's probably got a better grasp 
	of immediate situations than you have. Only when he's almost 
	psychotic with aberrations will a child be an accident prone.

	Hubbard also believes that it's pretty difficult to make a

end page  99

child grow up to be a pervert, and his description of what can 
lead to perversions is an example of Hubbard's amazing imagination 
and facility for cataloguing a variety of unbelievable tortures: 
"Kicking a baby's head in, running him over with a steam roller, 
cutting him in half with a rusty knife, boiling him in lysol. 
and all the while with crazy people screaming the most horrifying 
and unprintable things at him."

	Hubbard's permissiveness, however, does not always extend toward 
children who don't want Scientology, auditing. "If the child 
is even faintly unwilling to be audited, you can coax the child 
into short sessions, and then, as time goes on, lengthen them 
gradually," he wrote.

	Hubbard, who has seven children, plus seven grandchildren naturally 
has devised an auditing technique for kids. Children are given 
such simple processing as "Feel my arm. Thank you. Feel your 
arm. Thank you." They are also sent back to relive their birth, 
and it is apparently as painful an experience for them as it 
is for some of the adult preclears, since Hubbard wrote:
	If the auditor should make a slip, like telling the child that 
	birth won't hurt him much when he returns to it, the child will 
	be expecting a mild or nothing at all... an auditor hasn't known 
	frustration until he has run a child halfway through a painful 
	experience only to find that a happy ending has been tacked 
	onto it. 

	Scientologists feel that their treatment is of great 
benefit to children, and they have made a number of active 
attempts to get their methods taught in schools. Below is a 
quote by Hubbard, ostensibly telling Scientologists how to deal 
with the press, but in fact telling them how to get Scientology 
in schools. Hubbard recommends Scientologists put teachers and 
students on "meters" (E-meters), and give "daily mental activities" which 
is what they do in Scientology. It is interesting to note that 
Hubbard's obsession with sex and violence become apparent once 
again, inasmuch as the hypothetical case he chose concerns a 
teen-age girl who was raped.

end page 100

	Teen-age girl shows up in H[ubbard] G[uidance] C[enter] who has been 
	beaten and raped by teenage boys at High school and withholding 
	it since. Audit it out, get parents to OK investigation. Call 
	the press. Release story of vice and crime at local high school 
	with the Org doing the investigation. On subsequent days, criticize 
	laxity of Police. Criticize principal. finally, take more teen-age 
	sex cases. Just day by day deal off a new action to the
	press. String the story out. Take an action. Hold a press conference. 
	Put students on meters. Put teachers on meters. Get patents to 
	sue. Finally, advise school hire a permanent mental consultant and give daily 
	mental exercises to "teen-age monsters." Then wrap it up and skip 
	it. You've made something evil become something good attained ---- Scientology
	in schools. 

	At the end of this piece he gave the Scientologists 
another exercise to do: "Do a story design and calendar for Scientology 
Ministers demand FDA prove sterility pills aren't sex stimulants."
		One case in which the Scientologists did get into a school caused 
	a scandal in Endand in 1960. At that time, Miss Sheila Hoad, owner 
	of the East Grinstead Aston House Prep school for boys and girls from 
	three and a half to eleven, became friendly with an American Scientologist 
	named Dr. (perhaps of Scientology) Thompson, who lived in an apartment 
	adjoing the school. Dr. Thompson gave Miss Hoad a book called Creative 
	Learning: A Scientological Experitnent in Schools, which was 
	written by two Scientologists and was once actively promoted in 
	Scientology publications. Miss Hoad preceded to follow the instructions 
	in the book, and for twenty minutes each day, instead of English 
	grammar lessons, she gave the following excrcises to do. Session 
	1 consisted of 20 minutes of obeying simple commands like "stand up" 
	and "sit down." The purpose of this was to have the "pupils follow the 
	order without questions and happily." Session 4 consisted

end page 101

of the teacher saying "hello" and the kids saying "'all right" 
for ten minutes, and then this process was reversed. In session 
5, the teacher asked them to "remember a time that seems real 
to you," "remember a time when you were in good communication 
with someone" and "remember a time when you.a felt some strange 
affinity for someone," and the teacher then acknowledged it. 
("Thank you .... All right") There was a note that simpler words 
could be used for that lesson.

	Then came the death lessons. Miss Hoad told twentyfive of her 
pupils to "close your eyes. Concentrate. Now imagine you are 
dying. Imagine you are dead. Now you have turned to dust and 
ashes. Now imagine you are putting the ashes back inside yourself." 
These "death lessons," as they came to be called, were given 
behind locked doors with a "Do Not Disturb" sign outside, and 
the children were told "never think about these lessons after 
they are over," which suggested to many that she was warning 
the children not to tell their parents about it. But one nine-year-old 
pupil became so depressed about the lessons that her mother had 
to take her to a doctor and she whispered the secret to him. 
Another child, after ointment was rubbed on her chest for a cold 
said "Mummy, I am going to die. I feel funny inside." That mother, 
who had perhaps heard about Hubbard's attaching an E-meter into 
plants to see if they could feel pain, said "Let Dr. Thompson 
inject his cucumbers when he thinks they are in pain. But let 
him leave my daughter alone The other parents were equally 
outraged, although  Miss Hoad insisted that the lessons were 
the same as saying "The Lord's Prayer." The parents disagreed. 
Miss Hoad resigned after several
parents pulled their children out of the school and even more 
were absent. The Scientologists dissociated them-
selves from the treatment saying that those methods were 
"outdated and dangerous" and that the current practice 
was to imagine "beautiful things." Dr. Thompson, who had a child 
in the school, said he would not remove the child. Rumours to 
the effect that death lessons

end page 102


were being given in other English schools persisted for a long 
time after the incident.

	In addition to trying to get children to become Scientologists,
Scientologists also actively solicit celebrities. Their celebrity 
chasing goes back to around 1955 when Hubbard invited his followers 
to write and tell him which celebrity they wanted. promising 
to allocate one to each person who asked for one. The person, 
however, was responsible for all the expenses involved in getting 
the celebrity into Scientology. Anyone ,who succeeded would 
receive two weeks of special coaching at the Phoenix Org, although 
they would have to pay for their own living expenses and transportation.

	Some of the people whom Hubbard hoped would become Scientologists, 
and whom he offered to allocate, were: Walter Winchell, Ed Sullivan, 
Marlene Dietrich, Ernest Hemingway, Danny Kaye, Joseph Alsop, 
Stewart Alsop, Sid Caesar, Liberace, Fred .~dlen, Arthur Godkey, 
George Gobel, Fulton I. Sheen, James Stewart, Howard Hughes, 
Billy Graham, Bob Hope, Pablo Picasso, Walt Disney, Milton Berle, 
Jackie Glenson, Lowell Thomas. Red Skelton, Hem Luce, Walter 
Lippman, Groucho Marx, Cecil B. Dege, .M-turo Toscanini, Bing 
Crosby, Greta Garbo, Charles Addams, Donald O'Connor, Edward 
R. Murrow.

	Hubbard admitted that pursuing these celebrities would be a 
bit difficult, but he told his followers not to be dismayed 
and to pursue them relentlessly. "Put yourself at every hand 
across his or her path," wrote Hubbard, and do not permit "discouragement 
or 'no's' or clerks or secretaries to intervene in days or weeks 
or months to bring your celebrity in for a formal auditing session."
Project Celebrity still seems to be one of their policies, 
since the Scientologists recently opened a Celebrity Center 
in California allegedly for the purpose of attracting Hollywood 
personalities. Last year it was claimed that the following 
celebrities were Scientologists: Tennessee Williams, Leonard 
Cohen, Mama Cass Elliot,

end page 103

Stephen Boyd, Jim Morrison, William Burroughs and possibly 
the Beatles.

	One famous, in fact infamous person interested in Scientology 
that they do not boast about, talk about, or probably even want 
is Charles Manson, the convicted murderer of Sharon Tate and 
her friends. The New York Times stated that Manson first got 
interested in Scientology while he was incarcerated in the McNeil 
Island Penitentiary in Washington (Scientology' has programs for 
prisons). After his release, The Times reported, he went to 
Los Angeles where he was said to have met local Scientologists 
and attended several parties for movie stars, possibly the July 
18 dedication of the celebrity center. Scientology literature 
was also said to be found at the ranch when Manson and his family 
were captured. But for reasons unknown, it is claimed that Manson 
may have been made a "suppressive person" by the Scientologists, 
and there have also been hints that he may have joined the Process, 
the sex and satan group which originally broke away from Scientology,.

	Another bit of publicity that the Scientologists are probably 
not too pleased with concerns the murder of three people in 
Los Angeles. Two were Scientologists. According to The New York 
Post, all three were brutally beaten, ritualistically stabbed, 
had their right eyes cut out, and were dumped 100 yards from 
a Scientology commune. One of the girls, Miss Doreen Gaul, nineteen, 
who came from New York to study Scientology,, was naked except 
for a strand of Indian beads. The boy, James Sharpe was fifteen 
years old. The third was unidentified. Doreen Gaul's father 
allegedly told a New York Post reporter that she had lately 
become disenchanted with Scientology.

	She was not the only one. For the past fourteen years, John 
McMasters, the first Scientology clear, appears to have been 
groomed by Hubbard to take his place when he dies. McMasters 
recently wrote a letter to Hubbard, and sent copies to "suppressives" 
and Scientology enemies. Although McMasters declared

end page 104

that "I shall never withdraw my allegiance to Ron or
Scientology he announced that he was leaving Hubbard's
ships to spread Scientology in Africa, because of his "horror 
at what such people on the Sea Org could do to mankind." He criticized 
Hubbard and Scientology for their "savage and vicious ethics" and 
seemed particularly disturbed over the death of the three Los Angeles 
teen-agers. Their deaths may have partially precipitated McMasters' 
decision to dissociate himself from certain aspects of Scientology. "Somehow 
we are violating our basic ethics for such things to happen to us," he 
wrote. "These last two ghastly murders of our students, one of whom 
is a clear, need never have happened if we hadn't been mocking 
up [making] enemies so solidly."

end page 105
blank page
end page 106

	CHAPTER FOURTEEN

			SCIENTOLOGY
		 BUSINESS OR RELIGION?

	Ron Hubbard does not look upon himself as a
	patriarch, pope, bishop or even elder. "I control 
	the operation," he says, "as a general manager 
	would control any operation of a company."
 			---------from an interview with Hubbard 
				for "The Saturday Evening Post"

	Scientologists repeatedly emphasise that Hubbard makes no money 
from Scientology because he pours any money he receives back 
into the organization for re-search. If this is true, then it 
is to the Scientologists' credit that they have spent an enormous 
amount of money for research, because Hubbard has often received 
a ten percent tithe from the gross income of the Churches. In 
addition to this, he once levied an additional five percent 
tax on Orgs which were slow in paying up, and also once requested 
that his Orgs send him "any extra money you have around."

	Just where the money goes has never been clear. His followers 
swear that he uses none of it personally, and there seems to 
be no question in their minds that his many homes, cars, boats, 
etc., are all necessary for the Scientology operation. His followers' 
faith is such that no one in the Orgs seemed particularly perturbed 
when they saw the picture of Hubbard and his wife next to

end page  107

their car, and the caption "Ron and Mary Sue beside their Jaguar."

	Hubbard's wealth may have also come from the publication of 
at least thirty-five books that he's written on Scientology 
and Dianetics. He writes one every six months. sells 6-9,000 
copies of each. and recovers his printing costs in eighty days. 
One of the books, Dianetics.' The Modern Science of Mental 
Health, the most relentlessly promoted of all of his books, 
has sold a million and a half copies since it was published.

	In addition, Hubbard makes all Orgs buy $10,000 worth of his 
books ($5,000 with cash) or he declares the Executive Secretary, 
whose job it is to purchase these books "nonexistent" for this 
"betrayal to humanity,.'' There is also some evidence that Hubbard 
has made money by auditing people personally at $50 an hour 
and by speaking at Scientology Congresses which he set up. 
These Scientology Congresses are generally a good source of 
income, since they cost at least $75 per couple. In fact, one 
in 1958 that included auditing brought in approximately $800 
per person from at least 140 people, thereby earning over $100,000 
for the weekend.

	Scientologists also promote a number of special items in a booklet 
they call Expand whose title seems to have nothing to do with 
the potentialities of the mind. Expand advertises not only Hubbard's 
books ("ORDER AS MANY. BOOKS AS YOU POSSIBLY CAN WITHOUT REGARD 
TO FIXED CONSUMPTION AND FLOG THEM,"), but also films about 
Hubbard, ("GET THESE FILMS NOW AND BOOST YOUR STATS TO BOOM 
PROPORTION"), tapes of Hubbard ("The Org Board and Livingness," 
"The Missed Missed Withhold"), Church certificates for marriages, 
funerals and christenings (which are legal in many states), 
old father Hubbard's cupboard of E-meters (which are sold for 
more than $126, although the government determined in 1963 that 
they cost only $12.50 to build), car badges, Scientology scarves, 
pins, blazer

end page 108

badges, cuff links, money clips, earrings and self portraits 
of L. Ron Hubbard himself for only $5.35 a piece ('Ron's tremendous 
beingess, strength and depth of understanding show through magnificently.").

	It is these very commercial aspects of the Church, plus the large 
sums of money that Hubbard has made, that have recently caused 
them to lose their tax free status in America. In August, 1968, 
the United States Court of Claims ruled, on appeal from a decision 
of the Trial Examiner in July of 1967, that Scientology failed 
to qualify as a corporation "organised and operated entirely 
for religious purposes." Scientology appealed this decision 
again in May of 1969 with Michael I. Sanders brilliantly arguing 
the case for the government. The Scientologists lost again when 
the Court of Claims ruled against them in August, in view of 
the fact that during the four year period of 1956-1959, the 
Washington group had made $758,982 and paid Hubbard more than 
$100,000 plus the use of a car and a home, along with some unexplained 
payments to his family, and in some cases ten percent of the 
gross income of the various groups. This suggested a "franchise 
network for a private corporation." Now the Scientologists have 
only the Supreme Court to turn to, and if they lose there, they're 
in trouble. The case mentioned above concerns more than $758,000 
that the Scientologists brought into their Washington, D.C., 
headquarters during a four year period when Scientology was 
not nearly as lucrative an operation as it is now. But if Scientology 
loses this final appeal, action could be followed for the more 
lucrative years after 1959 and interest would be due on the 
taxes for all of those years in question. In addition, this 
only concerns the Founding Church of Scientology in Washington, 
D.C. The Internal Revenue  Department may hit the other Scientology 
groups in at least nine other United States cities with the 
same taxes since 1956 at six percent interest. (Action has already 
been started in New York.) Although Scientology could suffer very 
badly from such a decision, they may also be

end page 109

helped, since the Government may not be inclined to try to put 
a group out of business that owes a large sum of money in back 
taxes. Hubbard does not seem to be personally involved in all 
this, since he claims to have given up his directorship in Scientology 
in 1966. But if the last appeal is lost, maybe Hubbard will 
have to save his Church with his own money. He claims to have 
already forgiven them a $13 million debt (he did not state where 
that money came from) "an understandable act of charity," wrote 
Time magazine, "considering that he has boasted to friends of 
having $7 million stashed away in two numbered Swiss bank accounts."

	A number of people believe that Hubbard originally turned the 
"science" of Dianetics into the "religion" of Scientology in 
order to avoid the very taxes and financial difficulties that 
are plaguing them now. Even Hubbard's own son, while admitting 
that Scientology had expanded "toward the addressing of the being" 
said it was also established as a religion because there was 
"more latitude in . . . regard to corporate structure," and 
that it had certain tax advantages, most notably tax exemption.

	But the religious aspects have not only enabled Scientology
to not pay taxes, but it has also enabled them to avoid prosecution 
or as they prefer to call it  the persecution that threatened 
Dianetics. The law allows a great deal of latitude toward religions, 
which don't have to live up to the strict standards of some 
other groups. The religion also helps get Scientology some of 
its members. The idea that it is a religion adds an air of respectability 
to the organization, often reinforced by the Scientology Reverends 
who may wear a full clerical garb that includes a collar, vest, 
black clerical robe, and a cross "bigger than the Archbishop 
of Canterbury," as one London skeptic described it Hubbard wrote 
that the religious aspects also served another function: "Society 
accords to men of the Church an access not given to others. 
Prisons, hospitals, and institutions... cannot do otherwise 
than welcome men of the Church." Not only

end page 110

does the religion enable Scientologists to enter certain places, 
but also to get out of them. One New York Scientologist, by 
claiming he was a "student of the ministry of Scientology" 
was able to get out of the draft, although this case is currently 
being appealed.

	People who join this Church are Jewish. Catholic, Protestant ---it 
doesn't matter ----because anyone who joins the Church of Scientology' 
joins a "nonsectarian religious corporation" and does not have 
to renounce the religion in which he was born. Just as it is 
not too difficult to become a member of this Church, it is not 
terribly difficult to become a minister either. At one time, 
all one had to do was be an auditor, and then pay another $150, 
memorise the Scientology creed, prepare his own ethical code, 
know several "ordinary" Church ceremonies, the Gospel according 
to St. John, the Church of Scientology sermons, and read The 
Great Religions by which Men Life. He does not even have to 
attend any special classes and can do this work on his own. Once 
he becomes a minister, he is also entitled to receive the benefits 
accorded other ministers. In Ancient Rendering Unto Caesar, Hubbard 
told them what they could deduct from taxes, namely, rent, 
utilities, office supplies, car for ministerial functions, etc.

	The Church of Scientology also has Sunday church services although 
often in a very nonclerical setting, such as their summer outdoor 
services in Central Park in Manhattan. These services are also 
more a pitch for Scientology' than for God. Someone usually gets 
up and discusses a phase of Scientology', along with a testimonial 
on how it changed his life; this may be followed by an afternoon 
of Israeli songs, a blues guitarist, a pianist, or a 'folk singer, 
who sometimes sings what are probably the most suggestive lyrics 
ever heard within a clerical setting.

	The Church of Scientology also has its own ceremonies. While 
the Church of Scientology Ceremonies book states that the services 
must have "dignity and order," it also says that they do not 
have to be "solemn and reverent

end page 111

The Bible is rarely if ever quoted, and the ceremony 
book states "there is certainly no necessity to quote from 
any other source." A taped lecture by Hubbard or question and 
answer periods might also be included.

	Some of the services in this book, such as the double ring marriage 
ceremony. sound more like an auditing session than a matrimonial 
one.
	(Minister to the Groom) 	Are you ready to accept
					this woman as your wife?
			(Groom)	Thank you.
	' (Minister to the Bride) 	Are you ready to accept
					this man as your husband?
			(Bride) 	Thank you. 

	During a Christening, the thetan is introduced 
to the body, then introduced to his parents' bodies, as well 
as those of his godparents. At the end of the ceremony the thetan 
is acknowledged and thanked for his participation.

	An "informal" Christening performed by Hubbard at one of the 
Scientology Congresses is discussed in the ceremony book. The 
Australian Report called the following christening by Hubbard 
a "travesty."

	[Hubbard] O.K. The parents of these children will bring them 
	front and center.

	(Speaking to the child): This is Mr______________
	__________and this is Mrs. ______________
	I'm introducing to the audience right now. And
	____________________and__________________
	have decided to be a godfather and godmother. So we're all 
	set.

	Here we go. (To the child) How are you? All right.
	Now your name is____________________ You got that?
	Good. There you are. Did that upset you? Now
	do you realise that you're a member of the HASI?

end page 112

	[Hubbard Association of Scientologists International] Pretty 
	good, huh?

	All fight. Now I want to introduce you to your father. This 
	is Mr. _____________________(to the parent): 
	Come over here. (To the child): .and here's your mother.

	And now, in case you get into trouble and want to borrow some 
	quarters, here's Mr.__________________________
	See him? He's your godfather. Now, take a look at him. That's 
	right. And here's in case you want some real good auditors; 
	she's your godmother. Got it?

	Now you are suitably christened. Don't worry about it, it could 
	be worse. O.K. Thank you very much. They'll treat you all right.

	As to whether Scientology is rely a religion, the Scientologists 
frequently boast that they were declared a bona fide religion. 
Actually this is not quite the victory they claim. The incident 
had its beginnings on January 4, 1963, when fourteen Deputy, 
Marshals and several Food and Drug Administration Agents, or 
as the Scientologists said, "longshoremen posing as Marshals," 
raided the Scientology headquarters in Washington, D.C. and 
seized 100 E-Meters along with several Scientology publications 
on the grounds that the E-meters were misbranded." This was 
based on the fact that the attached literature, meaning Scientology 
literature, either claimed or implied that the E-meter was capable 
of diagnosis, prevention, treatment, detection, and elimination 
of the causes of all mental and nervous disorders such as neuroses, 
psychoses, schizophrenia and all psychosomatic ailments. Scientologists 
protested that seizing their meters and books was a form of 
"religious persecution," and they referred to the incident afterwards 
as the "book burning." They even wrote letters at the

end page 113

time to President Kennedy and Attorney General Robert Kennedy 
asking them to protect the Scientologists' religion, "even though 
you are of a different faith." Hubbard also expressed a desire 
to meet personally with President Kennedy for a conference to 
"come to some amicable answer on religious matters." No conference 
ever transpired.

	While in April of 1967 a decision was returned for the government, 
in February of 1969, the United States Court of Appeals, in 
a split decision overruled it, saying
that the seizure of the meters was illegal. The FDA said
whether or not Scientology is a religion was "irrelevant
to the case." In their summary they stated that "... Scientology, 
has made out a prima facie case that it is a
bona fide religion, and since no rebuttal has been offered, 
it must be regarded as a religion for purposes of this case." 
(Author's italics. )

	So if the Scientologists have suffered a financial setback, it 
has been somewhat offset by a spiritual victory,. Hubbard is 
really the winner all around. Not only has he become rich but 
no one has yet legally disputed his claim that he has founded 
a religion. In an article in Parents' magazine, June 1969, Arlene 
and Howard Eisenberg wrote that Sam Moscowitz, science fiction 
writer and editor, had heard Hubbard speak before the Eastern Science 
Fiction Association in Newark, New Jersey. Although Mr. Moscowitz 
was not certain of the exact words Hubbard used, he said that 
Hubbard in effect had said that writing science fiction at a 
penny a word was no way to get rich but if you really wanted 
to make a million you should start your own religion.

end page 114

		CHAPTER FIFTEEN

		IS SCIENTOLOGY POLITICAL ?

	Scientology and Scientologists are not revolutionaries. They 
	are evolutionary. They do not stand for overthrow. They 
	are for the improvement of what we have. Scientology is not 
	political.
							L. Ron Hubbard

	Hubbard outlined a program for Scientology' expansion in the 
mid-1950's, and while it pertained specifically to South Africa, 
much of it seems relevant to their policies elsewhere. Their 
goal then, Hubbard wrote, was 1) to get Scientology known 2) 
to get Scientology' established in schools 3) to have Scientology' 
established in the universities 4) to have it established in 
industries 5) to have Scientology in the mines 6) and finally, 
to get Scientology "into the government and government department 
and services."

	As for some of these goals, examples were cited earlier of the 
methods Scientologists used to get known and to get their methods 
taught in schools. The Australian Inquiry found that the Scientologists 
had explored the possibility of promoting Scientology in various 
government departments. They said that they "considered the 
Education Department to be a good procurement area" and made 
some effort to "infiltrate it," but with no real SUCCESS.
	The Scientologists also tried to "take over" the 

end page  115

British National Association of Mental Health. (To be discussed 
later) Hubbard seems to be especially interested in getting 
into this field. He was once planning to start an auditing program 
for retarded children a text for The Society for the Mentally 
Retarded Children which he said was a program "we are now piloting 
in the U.S." There is also some evidence that Hubbard wanted 
to get his auditing methods into prisons, because he said he 
was planning to write a book called The Criminal Mind for a 
"clearing course for prisons."

	Scientology, has also approached business organizations to get 
their methods taught there, and has had some success in this 
field. In fact, they have gone into a number of business deals 
themselves. There is a lot of private enterprise among Scientologists, 
some related to Scientology. For example, Two Scientologists 
started a School of Stage Confidence using Scientology techniques, 
and two other Scientologists put out a record called "Free" 
under a Scientology label, dedicated to L. Ron Hubbard. In East 
Grinstead, Scientology owns a number of houses and stores. The 
Scientologists also tried to buy Lundy Island in England, which 
is inaccessible for large portions of the year, "as a retreat 
for people with nervous disorders," one paper quoted the Scientologists 
as saying. (According to another British paper, they were planning 
to buy it as a refuge for foreign students to beat the Government 
ban on their coming into the country.) Scientologists once also 
sold a pill called "Dianezene" which Hubbard said would prevent 
and 'treat harmful effects caused by exposure to radioactivity. 
Twenty-one thousand of these tablets were seized on October 
1, 1965, for being misbranded, adulterated, and containing less 
than the declared amount of stated ingredients.

	According to the London Sunday, Dispatch, Hubbard allegedly 
sold stock at about $65 a share in 1959 to a company that didn't 
exist. Hubbard apologised afterward, explaining that certain 
legal formalities he thought were completed were not. He returned 
all the

end page 116


money, and allegedly said, "It's lucky the police did not 
become involved, otherwise something most unpleasant
might have happened."

	Scientologists attempt to expand into various fields
(schools, prisons, mental health, businesses areas
shall be seen, politics) because they believe they have a
method that can and will save this world, and they 
altruistically feel they must get as many people as possi-
ble to join them or the world will be doomed. The
Scientologists are actively trying to increase their number. 
In one of their recent advertising brochures, 
they wrote that if every person who took the course would bring 
in two other people, etc., "this planet would be clear in eighteen 
months." Hubbard must also be very pleased with the potentialities 
inherent in the moon landing, since he wrote in Scientology 
Expansion, "I don't think Scientology will be contained very 
long on this planet -expansion will be that swift."

	Another reason that Scientologists are trying to get into 
so many different areas may be found in their recently revised 
"Code of a Scientologist." This code not only states that their 
goal is to increase their number in the world, but also their 
strength. Early in Hubbard's career, he claimed that Dianeticians, 
because of their higher I.Q.s, would form an aristocracy, and 
that this elite corps would subjugate the rest.
	One sees with some sadness that more than three quarters of the 
	world's population will become subject to the remaining one-quarter 
	Dianeticians] as a natural consequence and about which we can 
	do exactly nothing.

	But even if they do want to take over," said one former Scientologist, 
"they can't become dangerous unless they become political and 
then somebody gives them a government or an army."

	While the Scientologists may not see themselves as a political 
force yet, they do consider themselves to be as important as 
the major political forces today. A 1968

end page 117

mailing from a Scientology Org said that Hubbard would compare 
the 1965 accomplishments of the United States, the United Kingdom 
and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with the achievements 
of Scientology. Hubbard has also hinted that the Russians might 
like to see him on their side. In 1964, the Saturday Evening 
Post reported that Hubbard had stated that he had been approached 
for the secrets of Scientology' by Castro's
government. And the Russians, who didn't mind stealing
My Fair Lady, etc., were supposed to have 
offered him $200,000 for Scientology. When he suppos-
edly turned them down, he claims his apartment was
"blasted open" and his "basic manuscript disap-
peared.") At other times, Hubbard has also said that
"large sums" to complete his work under their 
auspices. He repeated his charge that they had stolen 
part of his manuscript in 1942 and the rest of it in 1950, and 
connected this to his refusal of the Russian's 1938 offer. This 
1938 manuscript, by the way, was called Excalibur and Hubbard 
claims that the first four of fifteen people who read it went 
insane.

	Hubbard's interest in politics is not just verbal. In 1962 Hubbard 
wrote a letter to President Kennedy offering the services of Scientology 
and promising that "Scientology is very easy for the government 
to put into effect." The letter begins by stating that it is 
as important as the letter sent to the White House on the subject 
of the atom bomb, signed by Professor Albert Einstein. To show 
Kennedy how important he was, and how effective Scientology 
is, he told him that Scientology: had "coached the British Olympic 
Team with the result that not one team member blew up in the 
events." (Hubbard's Italics) (He did not tell Kennedy that 
in an early issue of Ability, he had said that only two members 
of the British pentathlon team had received "Scientology 
.. processing.") Hubbard also told Kennedy how the Russians had 
offered him Pavlov's laboratories, had been stealing his secrets, 
etc., and concluded with "I feel sure

end page 118

that there exists a growing library on Scientology in Russia."

	He then told Kennedy not what the country could do for Scientology, 
but what Scientology' could do for the country. "The government 
only need turn over to us anyone it desires to condition to 
space flight or anyone whose I.Q. it desires to have raised 
and we will take it from there," Hubbard offered. (At the cost 
of $6.250 per pilot, although this was not spelled out.) Hubbard 
added that Scientology "could decide the space race or the next 
war in the hands of America" and generously concluded, "This 
is a duty letter... I do not wish to seem the cause of denying 
my own government this technology."

	Hubbard has also been accused of getting entangled with politics 
while he was in Rhodesia, and, in fact, may have been barred 
from that country a few years ago. The Daily Mail in England 
reported that this occurred because the Rhodesian authorities 
believed he was using the political situation in that country 
to expand Scientology. At first no one complained: Hubbard had 
invested nearly $80,000 in Rhodesia; he bought a house for 
a reputed $40,000 and a hotel to "show his confidence in the 
country and its government" although they were worthwhile investments 
for him, too, because Scientology was said to have taken in 
$25,000 in a city of only 45,000 whites. But the Daily Mail 
reported that Hubbard allegedly alienated people by constantly 
praising Ian Smith, expressing his sympathy for the cause of 
the white Rhodesians, and exploiting racial prejudices (allegedly 
by saying that the Africans wouldn't qualify for membership 
in Scientology because their I.Q. was too low). Such statements, 
had they ever been widely circulated, would not have made Hubbard 
popular among Scientologists in America, since Hubbard's constant 
emphasis of "freedom" and "equality" has recruited a number of 
American Negroes to the organization.

	Scientologists may also have tried to get Scientology into the 
South African government but in much less

end page 119

subtle ways. The Rand Daily Mail reported on June 12, 1969, 
that one witness told the board of the South African Inquiry 
that Mr. Parkhouse, Scientology's chief executive there, planned 
to arm and organize 5,000 Africans to seize control of South 
Africa. Below is the quote from the newspaper.
	"Mr. Parkhouse asked me to process him on the E-meter" he [the 
	witness] said.
	"He had just returned from a trip to Mr. Hubbard's headquarters 
	at Saint Hill Manor in East Grinstead, England. While processing 
	him I discovered he had a terrific problem.
	"Eventually he told me he was worried because he had been made 
	responsible for organizing and arming 5,000 Africans to seize 
	control of South Africa. I talked him out of it and he eventually 
	stopped worrying about his instructions." 

	The witness also told the commission that he did not know 
what became of Hubbard's plans or of Mr. Parkhouse.

	In Communication magazine, Hubbard outlined ways that Scientology 
could get into government.
	Locate its leaders. Get a paid post as a secretary or officer 
	of the staff of the leaders of that race. And by any means, 
	audit them into ability and handle their affairs to bring cooperation...
	A nation or a state runs on the ability of its department heads, 
	its governors, or any other leaders. It is easy. to get posts 
	in such areas . . . Don't bother to get elected. Get a job on 
	the secretarial staff or the bodyguard, use any talent one has 
	to get a place close in, go to work on the environment and make 
	it function better.
	The cue in all this is don't seek the, cooperation of groups. 
	Don't ask for permission. Just enter them and start functioning 
	to make the group win through effectiveness and sanity. The 

	Australian Inquiry related the story of a boy who took Hubbard's 
instructions quite seriously:

end page 120

	One preclear who had affiliations with the Australian Labor 
	Party saw [Hubbard's] Zone PIan as "a very able plan for 
	infiltration and subversion of the key institutions of the country," 
	the intention of the plan being "to create by those subversive 
	means a Scientology government" and he was so enthusiastic 
	about the possibilities which Scientology, offered for political 
	domination that he concocted a plan to Scientologize the Australia 
	Labor Party.

	His plan to Scientologize the Australian Labor party concluded 
as follows: "With Australia led by a government employing Scientology 
principles we should soon have a civilisation which can extend 
influence overseas." He submitted the plan to Hubbard, and supposedly 
gained his approval. Later, the boy ran into some difficulties 
with the Labor party and changed his affiliations.

	Scientologists are obviously political and have tried to get 
into government positions. Do they also have an interest in 
getting into the army to realize their ambitions? Who 'knows? 
It is interesting to note, however, that in a story Hubbard 
published in Astounding Science Fiction magazine when he was 
in his twenties, he had one of the characters say, "Now you 
see, if you run the army you are bigger than the army and it 
won't try to get you."

end page 121
blank page
end page 122


	CHAPTER SIXTEEN

	SCIENTOLOGY VERSUS MEDICINE.

	1)	He uses a special machine he claims can cure disease.
	2)	He guarantees a quick cure.
	3)	He advertises or uses case histories and testimonials.
	4)	He refuses to accept the proved methods of medical research.
	5)	He says medical men' are persecuting him or are afraid 
		of his competition.
	6)	He believes that his methods are better than surgery, 
		x-rays, or drugs.
	7)	He uses high sounding titles easily confused with qualified 
		scientific professionals and organizations.
			 ------"How to Spot a Medical Quack" 
				by the American Medical Association.

Although Scientologists claim that they are not in competition 
with medical fields, much Scientology energy has been devoted 
in the past few years to attacking doctors, and especially psychiatrists. 
Hubbard and Scientology have never been too fond of the medical 
profession. Eric Barnes, Public Relations Chief of the New York 
Church allegedly told writer Howard Eisenberg about a boy whose 
broken leg had healed in two weeks instead of six through Scientology 
Barnes was said to have claimed that doctors were so skeptical, 
"they broke it again to investigate the phenomenon."

end page 123
	124	THE SCANDAL OF SCIENTOLOGY

	Scientologists are not permitted to take aspirins be-
fore auditing, or "receive any 'treatment' 'guidance' or
'help' from anyone in the 'healing arts' i.e., physicians
or dentists without consent," except in extreme emer-
gencies when no one in the Church can be reached But
Hubbard's feelings toward doctors, and psychiatrists are
a bit ambivalent, because while railing against them, he
offers a fifty percent reduction to any doctor or psychia-
trist taking a Scientology course. Since Scientologists
are not supposed to "mix Scientology with any other practice," 
his goal appears to be to get them to become
Scientologists. 

	Hubbard is convinced, actually obsessed with the
delusion, that psychiatrists kill or torture their patients with 
electric shock .treatment, use them sexually, and never ever 
help them. Hubbard wrote, "We have never
found one person cured by psychiatrists, not one. If
they call, as they do, anyone who disagrees with them
insane, then those who agree with this human butchery
should wear a swastika arm band so we can recognise
them."
	
	Hubbard's hostility to the medical profession was ap-
parent in the first story he wrote for Astounding Science
Fiction in the late 1930's. The story, told about a man
who had the two halves of his brain sewn up by doctors.
At the beginning, with one glance the man could heal
anything. Later this miracle of surgery boomeranged
and the man could kill with the same glance. In other
words, the doctors had given him an evil eye. This hos-
tility also goes back to his first book. Below is a portion
of an alleged case study:
the mental hospital gets our patient and the
doctors there decide that all he needs is a good
solid series of electric shocks to tear his brain up,
and if that doesn't work, a nice ice-pick into each
eyeball after and during electric shock... Our pa-
tient can't defend himself; he's insane and the in-
sane have no rights, you know.

end page 124

	Only the cavalry. . .  arrived in the form of Dianetics...

	Although Scientologists claim they are not in compe-.
tition with analysts, they have tried to lure people away
from them: "A complete Freudian analysis can cost
$8.000-$15,000. Better results can be achieved in
Scientology' for $125, and on a group basis for a few
dollars." But their primary method of diverting people
from psychiatrists and psychotherapy is not so subtle.
Scientologists have actively tried to discredit their
"competition," and in a manner so libelous that it is
hard to believe that the epithets and accusations Scien-
tologists hurl come from the same group that once sued
everyone else for libel. Nonetheless, the Scientologists
blithely refer to members of what they call "the weird
cult of psychiatry" although Scientologists say that
they resent being called a "cult" as "psychoracketeers," 
"insidious psychopoliticians, ....mental con men"
"frauds," "pimps," etc., who spend their time "giving away free 
supplies of marijuana and LSD," "banding together with the Better 
Business Bureau to stop Scientology," "killing, maiming and torturing
helpless patients," "castrating them," and practicing "mental 
murder and sexual perversion" [sic].
In a memo to a private investigator, urging him to investigate 
psychiatrists, Hubbard allegedly wrote:
A psychiatrist today has the power to take a fancy to a woman, 
drug or shock her into temporary insanity, use her sexually, 
sterilise her to prevent conception, kill her by a brain operation 
to prevent disclosure...
In "A Warning to Brain Butchers," his language was even stronger. 
Hubbard telegraphed the following "news" to the New York Scientology 
headquarters to tell them his views on psychiatrists.
	THEIR 19TH CENTURY METHODS MUST END. 
	THEY ACT LIKE THE MAD SCIENTISTS IN A BAD MOVIE. 
	THE TRUE MEDICAL DOCTOR IS ASHAMED TO BE ASSO-

end page 125

	CIATED WITH THEM. THE PSYCHIATRIC IDEA OF MAN IS A 
	GODLESS SOULLESS PIECE OF MEAT.* THEY DEMAND 
	THEIR RIGHTS TO BUTCHER AT WILL. THEY MOCK 
	CHRISTIAN SENTIMENT. ACCORDING TO THEM EVERYONE IS 
	HOPELESSLY MAD AND ANYONE WHO OPPOSES THEM IS 
	ESPECIALLY SO. YET WHERE ARE THEIR CURES? 
	THEY ONLY HAVE VICTIMS. THEY TORTURE AND KILL 
	OUT OF SIGHT IN THEIR INSTITUTIONS. SCIENTOLOGY 
	ORGANIZATIONS OVER THE PLANET ARE URGING LAWS
	WHICH FORBID KILLING OR INJURING THE INSANE 
	MURDER IS MURDER.

	Besides being murderers, madmen, butchers, etc., the
Scientologists also accuse psychiatrists of working with
the government to control the populace:

	Using their connections with government "givea-
'	way" agencies, the psychoracketeers are being pro-
	vided with billions... as well as free supplies of
	marijuana and LSD with which to continue their
	"research" on helpless psychiatric victims deprived
	of their rights by laws passed by these same insidi-
	ous psychopoliticians.

	By educating the public that everyone needs
	mental health treatment, they hope to be able to
	control 'the morals, mores and the lives of the en-
	tire nation.

	Scientologists believe that the psychiatrist's ultimate
goal is "domination of every man, woman and child
through the use of 'mental health' indoctrination pro-
grams even now being promoted and promulgated down
to a prenatal level." The last words are an interesting
slip, since it is the Scientologists and not the psychiatrists

* Although Hubbard says that the psychiatrist thinks of his 
patients as a "piece of meat" the reader is reminded that Hubbard 
calls newcomers in Scientology "raw meat"

end page 126

who believe that the prenatal period is so important.

	Scientologists are not just sitting back and waiting for people 
to join them in their crusade against the "'killers.'' They 
are actively soliciting people in America, England and Australia 
who have undergone "serious mental or physical abuse or damages 
at the hands of psychiatric frauds" to contact their nearest 
Church of Scientology  and make a full report to their Human 
Rights Commission. They will probably find people willing to 
do so, especially since those who have been hospitalised might 
prefer to believe that psychiatric treatment was the cause of 
their problems rather than the result of it, exonerating themselves 
of all responsibility. The result of this campaign, though, 
could have an unfortunate effect for the Scientologists. Inviting 
people who have had psychiatric treatment or been institutionalised 
to join them in their crusade may make Scientology the world s 
largest out-patient clinic for mentally disturbed people.

	Scientology is also fighting the mental health movements with 
litigation, and they claim they have filed or are ready to file, 
$75 million worth of suits against psychiatric organisations and 
others over the world "in the international conspiracy against 
Scientology- for libel, slander, conspiracy and psychiatric efforts 
to destroy the Church." Scientologists have said that if they 
won the suits and all the money was paid up, it would make Scientology  
among the richest of religious organisations. They pointed out 
that all damage monies are tax free, and said that the money 
would be used to try to "straighten out some of the horror psychiatry 
has made in the field of mental healing." Although they have 
not outlined how this would be done, presumably it would be 
attempted with Scientology techniques.

	Scientology is also fighting the mental health field by trying 
to change the laws. They claim to be preparing an Anti-Butchery 
Bill for introduction into Congress. The purpose of this bill 
is to make it a felony to use

end page 127

psychiatry, psychology, drugs, or shock treatment to change 
any individual s religious, philosophical or political ideas. 
From this last statement, along with many others, it is apparent 
that Scientology, which started during the McCarthyite  50's 
is still gravely concerned with the menace of Communism 
and the dangers of secret brainwashing even 
though one of the  questions on their own security test reads 
"Are you in disagreement with any of the stable data of Scientology"?

	The Australian Report dealt with the question of whether or 
not Scientology was a form of brainwashing. It said that "The 
Board heard expert psychiatric evidence that repetitive questions 
and repetitive commands increase suggestibility and, if continued 
long enough, may reach the point where indoctrination could 
be effected, and a reversal of opinions and ideas previously 
held could be obtained."

	The Australian Board was also disturbed to find that Scientology 
techniques closely resemble those set out in a book entitled 
Brainwashing which is supposed to be "A Synthesis of the Communist 
Textbooks on Psycho-politics." They claimed that evidence was 
presented to indicate "that the English version of the manual 
bears a startling resemblance to Hubbard s own literary style." 
But they stated that it was immaterial whether or not he wrote 
the book "as was suggested by a witness hostile to Scientology." 
What was important to them was that Scientologists "assiduously 
sold and distributed this manual"  In fact, one of the exhibits 
brought to the Board was an extract from the Brainwashing manual 
with Scientology words substituted. "With these substitutions 
effected, the extracts were in the main startlingly applicable 
to Scientology as operating in Victoria." 

	Scientologists are also fighting mental health organisations 
by allying themselves with Churches, and working on a campaign 
to get psychiatric patients to see their "pastor" instead of 
a psychiatrist. They have quoted Dr. Karl Menninger, co-founder 
of the famous Menninger

end page 128

clinic, who allegedly said that many people who go to psychiatrists 
should take their problems instead to a "minister of religion." 
If Menninger did say this, it is extremely doubtful that he 
was referring to Scientology, especially since his brother, the 
late Dr. William Menninger once said that Hubbards systems 
and ideas "can potentially do a great deal of harm."

	The Scientologists have also tried to fight the mental health 
movement by what appears to be simply trying to take it over. 
In England, a number of Scientologists made an attempt to fill 
the vacancies in the National Association of Mental Health, 
most notably David Gaiman to fill the post of Chairman, after 
the retirement of Lord Balniel. In addition, Scientologists 
flooded the association with applications for membership. They 
might have made it, except that NAMH members became suspicious 
as they received 250 applications instead of their normal rate 
of about twenty a month. Furthermore, it was noticed that almost 
all of the two guinea postal orders were issued by the East 
Grinstead Post Office. The National Association of Mental Health 
wrote letters asking the Scientologists to resign (according 
to David Gaiman they  were "expelled"), and Gaiman, the Scientology 
spokesman in England, offered to withdraw if the Association 
instituted certain reforms. Eventually the Scientologists managed 
to stop the annual meeting of the NAMH while they paraded 
outside, asking for, among other things, a public inquiry into 
conditions in mental hospitals.

	What is the Scientologist s goal in all this? Is the crusade 
of this "Church" against a nonreligious field based on a sincere 
abhorrence of its methods? Are they really so concerned about 
conditions in mental hospitals, since, after all, they claim 
Scientologists have never been there, and for that matter, never 
end up there? Is it an attempt to discredit their "competition" 
so that people will go to Scientologists instead? Is it a vindictive 
act to get back at groups whose criticism against them seems 
to be quite mild, if one considers what the Scien-

end page 129

ologists have had to say about them? Is there some psy-
chiatric history in Hubbard s own past that has caused
this incredible vendetta? Or are they anxious to divert
attention away from inquiries into Scientology, by trying
to get an inquiry into conditions in mental hospitals It
is true that attacks against psychiatry  have intensified as
public inquiries into Scientology  have been established.
Hubbard wrote the following in Freedom:
	Instead of attacking Churches and independent re-
	search, Governments should... inquire into the
	abuses... by psychiatry ....  For psychiatric 
	organisations to criticise Scientology is the most 
	fantastic hypocrisy on Earth. These men are not healers
	they are trained killers. 

	Perhaps their reasons for wanting an inquiry 
into mental hospitals are really altruistic. Lest anyone doubt this,
they have offered to sit in on the inquiry, and possibly
contribute, "as part of our charitable work."

	Mental health organisations have taken an
intolerant view of the whole situation, probably hoping
that like the place, the Scientologists will eventually,
disappear. They may also fear that if they attack Scien-
tology they might give it publicity  and draw more atten-
tion to it. Thus, if someone calls and asks the American
Psychiatric Association whether to go into Scientology
or psychiatry, they do not try to convert them to psychi-
atry. Instead they sometimes send them Scientological
literature against psychiatry, hoping that they would be
appalled at the epithets and accusations and make a deci-
sion from that. The following quote from the American
Psychiatric Associations lively Psychiatric News is not
the official policy of the APA, but it presents one opin-
ion of how to handle this situation:
	Well, it is a religion of course. It is for you to de-
	cide whether to join the Church. If you wonder
	whether it has anything to do with psychiatric
	treatment the answer is no. You might also like to
	know that it costs a significant sum to be "proc-

end page 130


	essed" in the Church. And if you would like my personal opinion 
	as a fellow American, I wouldn't be caught dead entering its 
	doors.

end page 131
blank page 
end page 132


	CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

	THE SECRET SCIENTOLOGY SESSIONS

		In Dianetics; today's obvious nervous breakdown is 
		tomorrow's most cheerful being.
						L. Ron Hubbard

	Scientology  is perhaps a religion, is probably a philosophy, 
is definitely a business, is potentially a political force, 
and is also a form of therapy, or as they call it now, pastoral 
counselling. Most people do not realise this, since the Scientologists 
draw attention only to the idea that they are a religion and 
a philosophy. Thus, they have been able to keep the public in 
the dark about what is happening and they have also been largely 
able to avoid public outcry. Scientologists have decided a series 
of methods that they believe can and will save this "enturbulated" 
world. Some of their practices-those that have been widely criticized, 
such as disconnecting, suppressives, investigations are based 
on their belief that anyone who questions, criticises or tries 
to stop Scientology from utilising these methods is harming 
not only themselves but the world.

	Scientologists try to keep their methods of pastoral counselling 
a very strict secret. While this shields them from criticism, 
it also makes doctors doubtful as to its efficacy. "Suppose 
Newton had founded a Church of Newtonian physics and refused 
to show his formula to anyone who doubted the tenets of Newtonian 
physics? quote William Burroughs. (In an earlier stage, when

end page  133


	134	THE SCANDAL OF SCIENTOLOGY

	Burroughs was apparently more enchanted with Scientology , he 
wrote "There is nothing secret about Scientology , no talk of 
initiates, secret doctrines or hidden knowledge.") But only someone 
who takes advanced Scientology, courses or grades" can find out 
what Scientology methods are. If an ex-Scientologist. first divulges 
these secrets after he takes the courses. he is subject to expulsion. 
But even though he doesn't know what the courses are until he 
takes them. he must agree that they are correct in advance and 
cannot question them. "It s like a physicist saying  you can t 
see my formulae unless you first agree that they are correct 
sight unseen, " said Burroughs.

	Some of these secret sessions are done with the E-meter, although 
other sessions consist of a series of exercises to "raise the 
preclear's ability." When working with the meter, the auditor 
may first show the preclear the auditing room and ask if there 
is anything about it that upsets him. The preclear may also 
be told to remove his watch and wedding ring to prevent interference 
by outside metals. Then the auditor and preclear face each other 
in chairs, with the E-meter on a table between them. The auditor 
watches the needle of the meter, and if it reacts in a manner 
that he believes indicates that an engram is present, the auditor 
repeats the question until the needle "floats," which presumably 
means that the engram has been "erased." The preclear, who cannot 
see the dials, does not have to accept the word of the auditor 
to determine whether an engram is really gone. Hubbard stated 
that when a patient succeeds in erasing an engram, he will feel 
a sense of wild elation which explains, perhaps, why when one 
Scientologist got rid of an engram, he laughed for two days 
without stopping.

	During these sessions, the auditor does not tell the preclear 
to free associate, as is done in psychoanalysis, but rather 
he is told to return to a specific incident, say one that caused 
grief, anger, fear, humiliation. The preclear then tries to 
determine the date of the incident,

end page 134

and if he cannot, picks an approximate date and keeps reeling 
off dates until the E-meter reacts. Once the preclear has found 
the date. he must then go to the beginning of the incident 
and tell the entire story , repeating it many times until all 
the details become clear. By the end of that time, the story 
supposedly loses its emotional charge and is no longer a source 
of problems or pain. At the end of each session, the preclear 
may be made to focus his attention on five or six objects in 
the room, presumably to bring him back to reality , before he 
is permitted to leave. Some sessions end more formally with 
the auditor saying, "Tell me I am no longer auditing you," at 
which point the preclear says, "You are no longer auditing me."

	If during these sessions a preclear has a particular problem 
he wishes to discuss, he is permitted to talk about it but only 
briefly. Then, instead of working on it, he may be told to .invent 
a problem of comparable magnitude, to lie about the problem 
he has, or even to invent a worse problem. There is a strong 
tendency during these sessions not to talk: about present problems 
at all. For example, Hubbard wrote the following to show auditors 
what to do if the preclear had what they call a "present-time" 
problem.
	AUDITOR: What do you think is wrong With you? 
	PRECLEAR: I'm impatient.
	AUDITOR: Can you think of someone who's impatient?
	PRECLEAR: My father. 
	AUDITOR: O.K. We'll run a father.

	But most of these sessions are devoted to past-time incidents 
or even past-life incidents. The preclear, while holding onto 
the cans of the E-meter, will be made to answer two or three 
questions asked repeatedly during the auditing session. For 
example, several sessions may be devoted to-alternating commands, 
like "recall something real .... recall a communication," and 
 recall an emotion." In other sessions they may be told to "recall

end page 135

a loss," "recall a misemotion." "tell me a problem,"
"tell me a solution," Or "what have you said?", "What
have you done? what are you willing to tell me
about? What are you willing to tell me about it?",
"What is the problem?", "What is the solution? what
have you done? and "What haven't you said?"

	In other sessions, the person has been asked ques-
tions or ordered to do things that to an outsider seem to
make far less sense, for example to "not know" some-
thing, to put things in the wrong time and place, and
even to deny the existence of objects around him, so
that portions of the environment, such as the walls or
the door have disappeared in his mind. The preclear has
also had to answer such questions as "Who isn't here",
"What aren't you thinking?", "where don't you have a
headache, "Have you a headache in last week?",
"Was your body in 1210 while you were going to col-
lege in 1940?"

	Many Scientology  sessions are devoted entirely to ex-
ercises guaranteed to raise the preclear s "ability."

	One series of exercises may be done outside of the
auditing room. For example, Scientologists have or-
dered an unconscious person, or a new born baby to
"Lie in bed. Thank you." They once reported doing this
for several hours to an unconscious Scientologist, until
they were kicked out of the hospital. (The patient later
died.) The reason for this seemingly strange exercise is
twofold. While it may seem odd to be telling something 
to an unconscious person, they believe the thetan is always
conscious and the person is thus able to hear it. Second-
ly, one of the principles of auditing is to find something
a preclear can do and then better that ability and ob-
viously an unconscious person or baby is able to lie in 
a bed. Hubbard also wrote that he once cured a drunk on
this principle he had him invent new ways to get
drunk!

	The first Scientology course for $15 consists of two
days or four evenings of the following exercises or
"Training Routines" or T.R. s, as they call them there.

end page 136

In the first T.R., Confrontation," two Scientologists sit 
a few feet apart and simply stare in each others  eyes without 
moving, twitching, blinking, giggling, sitting, fidgeting. 
for a minimum of an hour. (It is this exercise that helps Scientologists 
learn how to stare intensely at others.) The second T.R. is 
called "Bull Baiting" and it is somewhat similar; one Scientologist 
again stares directly at the other without moving, only this 
time the other partner tries to make the immobile one "flinch" 
or react by insulting him, humouring him, taunting him, or leading him 
on usually about his physical flaws or sexual problems.

	In a third T.R., called "Dear Alice" one Scientologist keeps 
repeating lines from Alice in Wonderland while his partner "acknowledges 
him." For example, one asks "Do cats eat bats?", or says "Imperial 
Fiddlesticks" and the other says "thank you" or "groovy." (It 
is said that in one eastern city, they decided to send an undercover 
policeman to investigate Scientology. The policeman spent several 
days repeating lines from Alice in Wonderland and being thanked 
for it.)

	In two other T.R's, one Scientologist keeps asking his partner 
 Do fish swim?" or "Do birds fly?" while the partner tries 
to make him "flinch" or become distracted
as he did in the "Bull Baiting." For example: Student: Do fish 
swim? Coach: Yes. Student: Good, Coach: Do fish swim? Student: 
Aren't you hungry? Coach: Yes.
Student: [You] flunk[ed]
While the purpose of these exercises may be elusive, they are 
actually supposed to teach someone to get commands across naturally, 
to get the answer to the question that he wants, to ask questions 
in a fresh manner, and not to start a second question until 
the first has been answered, etc. During a weekend I spent researching

end page 137

Scientology,, I did these five exercises. I certainly 
admire the amazing perseverance of Scientologists who do
these Training Routines since they are unbelievably 
tiring and boring. "Confrontation." for example is a
night-mare. If done correctly, without blinking or thinking or
anything. it induces hallucinations. When I had to do 
it, my first reaction upon staring at my partner was to
laugh, but within a few minutes I really wanted to cry.
Everything was itching everyplace my muscles kept
everything while the rest of my body felt  stiffer 
than the wooden chair I was on. After a while, my eyes started
to blur, and then so did my mind, and I watched in 
horror as my partner turned into a breathing Rorschach
card. His eyes, eyelashes and brows met, his nostrils
merged and became a cruel, flaring cavern in the center
of his face, and the shadows cast by this disfigured 
nose gave his entire face a sinister and terrifying quality.

	"Bull Baiting" was not much better. I was first as-
sisted to make someone else "flinch," but I was the one
who flinched the minute I laid my eyes on him. There
was nothing I couldn't insult him about --from the top
of his too-tiny head to the bottom of his hundred pound
five-foot frame. He had a Pinocchio-type nose, closely
set black beady eyes, parched thin lips, large red ears, 
a scattering of post-adolescent pimples, and a chin like a
slightly used rapier. I couldn't bear to insult someone as unattractive 
as he who must have been hurt often
throughout his life. But the Scientology, leader and the
assistant of the group both put me down for this. They
also showed me how to do it: the leader described each
of the boy's faults in what must have been agonising detail; 
the assistant, however, told him how handsome, tall, clear-skinned 
etc. he was. Then it was my turn to be baited, I was naturally 
braced for the worst. But to my surprise, instead of picking 
on my faults or flaws, or "buttons" as they called it there, 
my male partners tried to make me "flinch" by talking about 
sex, and their incredible obscenities and explicit descriptions 
of the amazing variety of perversions they wanted to practice

end page 138

with me made them sound disgustingly similar to an obscene 
telephone caller without the benefit of a telephone.

	The Scientologists also used the bull baiting exercise to find 
out if I was a writer. They sent an advanced Scientologist 
to bull-bait me. While at first he chatted aimlessly, all 
of a sudden, he thrust his face a quarter of an inch from mine, 
looked directly into my eyes, and said, ominously, "We've been 
watching you since you first came in here. We think you're really 
a writer." He kept questioning me repeatedly, while all the 
colour drained my face. So I purposely threw my eyes slightly 
out of focus, fixed my gaze an inch above his eyes, and concentrated 
intently on what it would be like to kiss him, hoping this would 
imbue my features with an acceptable amount of disgust and despair 
and I wouldn't "flinch." It worked and he finally changed the 
subject, like the others, to sex. He was so filthy, he made 
the obscenities of the earlier "bull baiters" sound as if they'd 
come from pre-pubescent children. His final statement was to 
ask me whether I'd like to join the Scientologists "in some 
of the great orgies we have over here on Tuesday [or Thursday, 
I forget] night." I'm sorry I can't report to you whether that 
last statement is true or not, because I wanted to get out of 
that world as fast as I could, and had no desire to attend an 
"orgy" at the org.

	In all fairness, however, I must say that these TRs, however 
 tedious (I mean how often can you ask someone "do birds fly?" 
without feeling that you're about ready to also?) did have some 
benefit for me. They helped teach me to talk with my voice and 
not with my hands, to acknowledge somebody's statements before 
I rambled on with my own, to look people straight in the eye, 
and to be more persistent with someone when I wanted to get 
an answer from him. And it is probably not the fault of Scientology
but my own incorrigibility that none of these effects lasted 
five minutes past that Scientology weekend.

end page 139

The relation between the exercise and its purpose is
bit more obscure in other sessions.
 In one exercise called "Holding Corners," the person
is supposed to visualise the two corners of the room and
then "hold them" there, thinking of nothing else. For
one reason, this is supposed to make you act younger.
Another exercise consists of "confronting various parts of 
the body:
	Auditor: what part of that body can you confront?
	Preclear: The elbow.
	Auditor: what part of that elbow can you confront?
	Preclear: The wrist.
	Auditor: Thank you.

	Many Scientology exercises consist of hours and hours of repetitive 
commands, not only like the above,
but like the following. The auditor says to the preclear: 
	Do you see that book? 
	Walk over to it. 
	Pick it up.
	Not know something about its colour.
	Not know something about is temperature. 
	Not know something about its weight. 
	Do you see that bottle? 
	Walk over to it. 
	Pick it up. 
	Not know something about its colour.
	Not know something about its temperature. 
	Not know something about its weight. 
	Do you see that book? Etc. 

	Hubbard said the above should be done "without... 
lag, without protest, without apathy, but only cheerfulness, 
each time seeing the items newly." He also said it was 
better to run this consecutively for several 
hours, rather than run it a short time for several days. One 
preclear was run for nine hours on the above without any breaks!

	Another Scientology exercise is called "S.C.S." (Stop,

end page 140

Change, Start). Most Scientology courses are given on levels, 
and in the beginning of S.C.S., the preclear must move small 
objects around a table, stop them, change their 'direction, 
etc., "quickly and accurately without protest" at the auditor's 
command. On higher levels, a person is commanded to get out 
of his body, since Scientologists believe that the thetan or 
spirit can function apart from the body. To accomplish this, 
the preclear is first told to "be three feet in back of your 
head" and then told to be in more and more difficult places 
"until he can sit in the center of the sun." This exercise was 
severely criticised by the Australian Inquiry, and in 1965, 
the Scientologists told them that it was no longer being run. 
(However, in 1970, a book was for sale at the Washington D.C. 
Org telling auditors about S.C.S.) It has been criticised because 
its effects can be devastating. Hubbard wrote that "If a preclear 
is about to fly out of his head he'll fly out of his head on 
S.C.S. If he does fly out of his head on S.C.S. or on any other 
process, you, of course, continue the process." He also wrote 
of S.C.S. that if a preclear suddenly "flies to pieces," started 
"flip flopping" and had to be picked up off the floor, etc., 
that the auditor should immediately get him back on to his feet 
and into the session. "This is no time for you to be changing 
processes simply because a preclear collapses," he wrote.

	All these exercises, and even E-meter sessions for recounting 
incidents in the real or imagined past, can be extremely tiring 
and difficult. Some people even think it is dangerous. The Australian 
Report commented on this as follows:
	during this, the preclear is very frequently experiencing 
	mental torture, which shows itself in contorted and flushed 
	features, tears, moaning, inability to speak, apparent deafness, 
	nausea, dizziness, sensations of pain, coma and unconsciousness. 
	One witness said that he almost killed his auditor, a close 
	personal friend, who was questioning him about withholds 
	[non-disclosed items]

end page 141

	he had as to "sexy' thoughts" concerning a female staff member... 
	Sometimes preclears are so distraught that they scream, develop 
	murderous feelings, have bouts of anger, grief and morbid feelings 
	and thoughts; their sexual passions are aroused, they act insanely, 
	laugh hysterically and engage in other hysterical behaviour; 
	they become violent and try to escape and have to be restrained 
	. . .In Scientology parlance, when such manifestations as these 
	occur, the preclear is being "restimulated"; 
	in fact, he is being debased and mentally crippled.

	Hubbard was aware that a preclear might have these
reactions, but warned auditors to continue nonetheless.
Hubbard said that if a preclear begged his auditor not
to make him talk about someone's death "that is the first engram 
he should get." Hubbard wrote:
	. . . when the preclear is apparently in the most intense pain... 
	you must calmly continue to run the
	incident, asking for any phrases connected with the incident, 
	and picking up all sounds, sense of touch,
	and kinesthesia as they appear... And then, when the incident 
	seems to be over, and the pain has subsided, command the somatic 
	strip to go to the beginning of the incident and roll it again!... 
	Pay no attention to any efforts he may make to avoid going through 
	a second or third time.

	Perhaps' it is not surprising that S.CS. 'has sometimes been 
given as punishment and one person said he had
been "sentenced" to S.CS. for twenty-five hours for some infraction.

	The Australian Report devoted an entire chapter to another danger 
they saw in these sessions hypnosis. The concluded that these 
various exercises were a type of hypnosis. To support their 
hypothesis, they listed every aspect of the Scientology auditing 
session along with its hypnotic counterpart. They also mentioned 
the fact that Hubbard admits he was "schooled in hypnotism and 
mysticism" although Hubbard claims he doesn't

end page 142

use hypnotic techniques. The Australian report concluded that 
Hubbard does use hypnotic techniques but that he has simply 
changed the name of various hypnotic phenomena to names of his 
own invention. The report pointed out that it was a common 
practice for Scientology auditors to ask the preclear at the 
end of the session whether he had achieved his goals and was 
satisfied with that session. Since they believed that the auditor 
was asking these questions when the preclear was coming out 
of a "hypnotic trance," while the "hypnotic rapport" with the 
auditor was in effect, the post hypnotic suggestions helped 
the preclear to believe that the goals had been obtained and 
that the session was successful. After the session was over, 
the "suggestion" that the session was a success could still persist. 
The Scientologists believe these exercises have helped them, 
while the Australian Inquiry concluded they've been used to 
hypnotise them.

end page 143
blank page
end page 144

	CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

		THE E-METER

		The E-meter is never wrong. It seems it knows all. It 
		tells everything.
 							L. Ron Hubbard

	An important part of a Scientology auditing session is the 
E-meter. It lures people into Scientology and, for some, gives 
a scientific basis to the methods used. Scientologists are accepted 
or expelled according to its revelations. It helps to extract 
the Scientologists most intimate secrets and confessions, including 
those of a sexual and criminal nature. It helps to determine 
the length, intensity and nature of the auditing session. It 
helps to determine the date and details of their present problems 
and their past lives. In fact, the E-meter often determines 
whether they have had past lives. If someone believes he hasn't 
lived before, but the E-meter does not respond to a date in 
the person's current life, then he is led to believe that the 
event must have happened in a past one.

	The E-meter or electro encephaloneuromentimograph is about ten 
inches by six inches by two inches and its appearance was described 
by one reporter as a "cross between a car speedometer and a 
practical joker's electric shock machine." Hubbard usually refers 
to its inventor as "Mathison" and Scientologists will tell you 
it was invented by Olin Mathison; actually it was invented by 
Volney Mathison, a chiropractor. To buy the ma-

end page  145

chine at an Org costs about $162; in 1963 the government determined 
that it cost only $12.50 to make, and that the Scientology organisations 
bought it wholesale for $47.

	Even at this price. the Scientologists and Hubbard will tell 
you that it's infallible. It is said that it never fails to 
pick out the date on which an incident occurred. Scientologists 
will tell you to the exact second when something happened to 
them a trillions of years ago. Apparently, it is less than perfect 
in picking dates in their current life. Its failure in this 
task is what caused author Alan Levy, who wrote a piece on Scientology 
for Time magazine, to become disenchanted with the organisation. 
(Along with the fact that his New York contract said Grades 
V-VII would cost him $390 at Saint Hill, but when he got there 
he discovered it was $3,150 "plus living expenses.")

	Alan Levy's problems in Scientology started when he was told 
to use the E-meter to locate the date on which
he had a fight with his wife. (Present one, current life.) Without 
the meter, he knew the year was 1958, and that
it was a Sunday morning in March. Although he suggested to his 
auditor that they consult a calendar, he
was told, "There's no need for that... The E-meter
will find out for us." The meter "found out" that the
fight occurred on March 18. But when Alan Levy
checked an almanac at a bookstore in East Grinstead,
he discovered that March 18, 1958 fell on Tuesday, not
Sunday.'
	It seems pathetic to me still, and terribly precarious,
	that my failure to perform so simple a journalistic
	chore under other circumstances I would
	have automatically looked up the date could
	have kept me half tied to Scientology, the deep-
	probing auditing sessions and the damned E-meter
	I am sure that among the millions of words...
	[Hubbard] has written, there are some to con-
	vince me that the engram I unlocked did happen
	on a Tuesday in another life or that March 18

end page 146

	did fall on a Sunday when I was in the womb. But thankfully 
	it no longer matters.

	A number of government witnesses in the Food and Drug Administration's 
case against the meter also agreed that its functioning was 
considerably less than perfect. George Montgomery, Chief of 
the Measurement Engineering Division of the National Bureau 
of Standards, and Dr. John I. Lacey. Chairman of the Department 
of Psychophysiology and Neurophysiology, at Fels Research Institute 
in Yellow Spring, stated that the E-meter "failed to meet the 
commonly accepted criterion by which such an instrument is judged." 
This was because 1 ) the E-meter has no device to control the 
constancy of current 2) Holding a can in the hand permits 
great variations in the area of the skin in contact with the 
metal electrodes, and would allow great variation in the amount 
of actively sweaty tissue that is in contact with it 3 ) The 
instrument is subject to polarisation 4) It is not a quantitative 
instrument due to uncontrollable variations in skin contact 
and current. These experts also explained that the machine was 
not really a measure of skin resistance at all, but partially 
a reading of how firmly the individual was gasping the can; 
if the person squeezed the can, there was more contact, and 
apparent skin resistance would drop. If he held the cans loosely, 
the apparent skin resistance would simply increase.

	Scientologists, on the other hand, claim that the Emeter is 
so sensitive that it will react not only when a person is holding 
onto it, but also when it is placed on a tomato garden variety 
that is. While some people would view this as an argument against 
the meter, Scientologists feel that this proves its validity 
and that it also supports their hypothesis that plants have 
feeling like humans. Scientologists have admirably gone to the 
trouble to research a number of experiments in this field and 
have presented them to the public in their newspapers and press 
releases. These experiments were as follows: 1) Dr. Erwin Kapphan, 
in Zurich, "using a sensitive

end page 147


version of the skin galvanometer" ("similar to the
E-meter used in Scientology' confessionals" said the
press release) showed that a tomato, when pierced 
with a nail, showed "definite emotional anxiety reactions"
similar to those of humans. Kapphan also said that
plants only catch a disease or blight if they are already
thinking of dying." 2) Dr. Bernard Grad, at McGill
University in Montreal, conducted the experiments
which showed that plants fertilised by a solution 
that had been given a flow of attention by a well-known faith
healer with acknowledged extrasensory powers grew
significantly faster and bigger then other plants. 3)
Rex Standord, of Duke University showed that plants
which are shown love, affection and lots of warm attention grow 
"demonstrably faster and bigger." The press
release contained no information about the statistical
levels of significance of these experiments, or even how the experiments 
were carried out (for example, how did they give "love" or a 
"flow of attention" to a plant?) nor how the results were analysed 
(how does a tomato show "definite emotional anxiety reactions"? 
etc.) They simply stated, in a rather unscientific but sincere 
manner, that three experiments proved beyond doubt that Hubbard's 
theory (and by extension, the E-meter) was valid. "After ten 
years of ridicule for his theory... L. Ron Hubbard has finally 
been vindicated... totally validated... it was about time."

	The reader may decide for himself whether the Emeter proves 
that plants feel pain, have emotional 
anxiety reactions, grow faster when given a flow of attention 
by a faith healer, etc., -or whether to accept the word of 
the chairman of the Department of Psychophysiology and Neurophysiology 
at one institute and the Chief of the Medical Engineering Division 
that the E-meter is not an accurate instrument for measuring 
the flow of electricity. But if you choose the latter, just 
remember that you cannot argue your position with the Scientologists. 
They claim that the E-meter registers the thetan, which they 
believe may have an electrical voltage, and

The E-meter	148

since no non-Scientologist has ever seen a thetan, much less 
checked it for electricity, how can anyone possibly disprove 
this theory?

end page 149
blank page
end page 150


	CHAPTER NINETEEN

	THE HIGH COST OF SCIENTOLOGY

	It's the only Church I've ever seen with a cashier's booth.
						a woman who quit 
						after one session.
								Time

	When people first enter this exciting world of the totally free, 
they rarely realise just how expensive it is going to be. After 
all, the first course costs only $15, and for that price one 
gets close to sixteen hours of Scientology. What people usually 
don't realise is that they will never see this $1-an-hour rate 
again. Later it'll be more like $25, and sometimes more. One 
man who paid $1,200 in advance for a 50 hour course completed 
it in 20 minutes, which meant he spent about $1 a second for 
auditing.

	Scientology has two goals, and two types of courses to match: 
"auditing" people or "processing"; and teaching people to audit 
others or "training." The first series on the Hubbard hierarchy, 
auditing or processing, consists of several courses or grades, 
which enable a "preclear" to become a "clear." If each course 
is taken separately, it costs approximately (the prices are 
always changing) $750 just to go from O-IV grade, $500 for the 
next one, $1,200 for Grade V ("Power Processes"), $775 for Grade 
VI, $600 for "Solo" (in which you audit yourself) and finally 
$800 for the final "clear" or a total of approximately $4,625, 
although package

end page 151

deals bring the price down a bit lower. But that's not
all, since one can also go eight levels beyond "clear" to
achieve the state of "Operating Thetan VIII" ---for only
$2,850 more. An Operating Thetan, by the way, is
someone who can function apart from his body, and
OTs (Operating Thetans) are said to be able to lift tele-
phones off the hook in another room and read books
while some distance away from them. The value of
this accomplishment may not be readily apparent, but
one practical Scientologist claimed she could visit her
parents in Texas while her body remained in Washing-
ton, D.C. Fortunately for the travel industry, not too
many Scientologists can do this.

	But processing or auditing is only half the story.
Scientology also trains its followers to audit others. To
qualify for this doesn't even require a high school edu-
cation just another prescribed series of Scientology
 courses. Scientologists generally suggest people start
with this series, and, in fact, unless specifically asked,
they don't even tell them about the prices of the other
group until later. This second group starts at a modest
$15 for the first course, $30 for the next, $45 for the
third, and then suddenly leaps to their more typical 
rate of $1,300. It generally takes at least a couple of months
to become an auditor, although Scientologists have
boasted that they can train some people to become
auditors "in less than twenty minutes." Those who wish 
to take more courses must go to the special Scientology
academies in Los Angeles, Scotland or Saint Hill and
pay additional expenses for room, board, books, equip-
ment and transportation besides.

	In addition to the price of the courses, there are
many other expenses. A Scientologist must buy many, of
Hubbard's books, and often attend special lectures or
Congresses, which usually run tapes of Hubbard, or
speeches by top Scientologists. In addition, a Scientologist
may take extra auditing (at about $25 a session) or
additional courses that are outside of the prescribed lev-
els of treatment or training. For example a number of

end page 152

the Orgs used to offer a special "Money Processing Course" which 
was supposed to increase the Scientologist's "money making potential." 
(This course consisted of having the person think of a number 
of ways in which he could waste money, probably under the principle 
that one must find what a preclear can do and then "better that 
ability.") If a preclear complained that he couldn't afford 
the Scientology rates, he was told to take this course for only 
$35 to help him learn how to earn more*. The "Money Making Potential" 
course may have helped many Scientologists but one wonders how. 
One man who took it said it was so worthwhile, he "made $5,000" 
a few days after completing it. When he was pressured to tell 
how he had done this, he finally admitted that after the course 
was completed he had gone to a bank and taken the money out 
on loan.

	If a Scientologist decides he doesn't want to spend extra money 
on additional auditing or courses, he may not have a choice 
in the matter. Scientologists progress at their own speed and 
are not permitted to continue until the Student Examiner is 
satisfied that he's mastered

footnote
* At one of the Scientology lectures I attended, someone asked 
"If the goal of Scientology is to help the world, why is it 
so expensive that very few people in the world can afford to 
be helped by it?" The person was told that "nothing is expensive 
when your happiness is at stake," which, of course, did not 
answer the question. Usually, the Scientologists will refer 
to their free "Personal Efficiency Course" as an example of 
their altruism and proof that they provide Scientology for free 
for those who can't afford it. They admitted in their United 
States tax case that the purpose of this course or lecture, 
however, was to get people to take paying courses. This becomes 
painfully apparent in Hubbard's HCO Bulletin of September 29, 
1959. "NEVER let anyone simply walk out. Convince him he's loony 
if he doesn't gain on it because that's the truth get the 
people in fast and boot them through to their HAS [Hubbard 
Apprentice Scientologist course] And never let a student 
leave or quit... If he walks in that door for a free PE, that's 
it. He doesn't get out except into an individual auditor's hand 
in the real tough cases, until he's an HAS." This PE "course," 
by the way, is the first night lecture, film of Hubbard and 
personality test.

end page 153

the previous lessons. Thus a Scientologist can be made to take 
and pay for more hours than he originally signed up for at 
the discretion of the leaders. These extra courses are sometimes 
given as punishment. and it was said in Parliament that a Scientologist 
could be made to take additional courses if he tried to leave 
Scientology or if he questioned the accepted doctrines of the 
group.

	A Scientologist may also discover that Scientology is costing 
him more money than his original calculations
indicated because the courses themselves may change. 
Hubbard often redefines the levels, and while the motivation 
is probably sincere, some on the way to a certain
level have discovered that they've had to sign up for a
whole new series of courses in order to reach their 
goal. In addition, after a person has reached a certain level,
 say clear, the HCO (Hubbard Communications Office)
Board of Review can call for a retest at its own discre-
tion after a lapse of time. Whether the person who fails
has to take any courses again, or even new ones, is not
known.

	It's not surprising that a really dedicated Scientologist
can easily spend $15,000 in this "world of the total-
ly free," and one wealthy Floridian, who had com-
plained of "nervousness" but was told he was in good
health at the Mayo Clinic and Johns Hopkins, spent
$28.000 in Scientology. But most people who join it
don't have that kind of money to spend. Many pay for
their courses by leaving their jobs and going to work for
Scientology in exchange for training units often for a
small salary besides ($40 a week for about 40 hours of
work in New York). Those who didn't wish to break
completely from their outside contacts, were able to get
credit at one time, which the Church extended at six
percent interest with a twenty-five percent surcharge re-
turned if the note was paid on time. One person who
wrote the Church and said he couldn't pay his bill, was
written back not to feel that way because "there's noth-
ing a thetan can't do." But they haven't always been
that kind to debtors. Unpaid notes have been turned

end page 154

over to collection agencies, legal action has been threatened, 
and debtors and their family have been harassed and intimidated, 
sometimes quite cruelly as shown by the letter below. This letter 
was received by a man in the mid-west whose son took $550 worth 
of courses but only paid for $200 of them. The father was then 
billed for the balance in a letter saying he had "agreed" to pay 
the other $350. The father wrote back saying he hadn't "agreed" 
to any such thing, and reported the Scientologists. On October 
13, he received the following threats and accusations from 
a Scientology Reverend.
	Rather than let my lawyers have all the fun, I will write to 
	you this once and straighten you out. I have a great urge to 
	beggar you to your last pair of socks, but I will curb the desire 
	a little longer. If you had the gut of a demented swineherd 
	you would have read those pieces of literature I so graciously 
	had sent to you... do not judge people by yourself. Not everyone 
	is a mass murderer like yourself Yes, I know quite a bit about 
	you and your various projects during the war. And how do you 
	sleep at night? I hope tis ill... I am expert at harassment, 
	try me and find out. You are not strong enough. You are not 
	smart enough. You haven't the funds to go through long lengthy 
	court battles. We have. Bigger men than you have done their 
	best to stop us. They failed. So will you because you are a 
	blatant moron in comparison. We joust only with our peers, others like 
	you we will simply gobble up . . . one more word out of you 
	and I'll have you investigated. I might anyway. I have never 
	seen one person yet that resisted Scientology who didn't have 
	a great deal to hide. And you evidently won't look at free books 
	sent to you, so you must, perforce have a great deal to conceal. 

	The letter continued with more accusations of guilt on the part 
of the father, along with praise of Scientology and concluded 
on this ominous note.

end page 155

	If you want to start a Donnybrook, Buddy, wail
	away; to use the argot of the streets I'll just start
	my people to work on you and then before long
	you will be broke, and out of a job and broken in
	health. Then I can have my nasty little chuckle
	about you and get back to work. . .  You won't
	take long to finish off. I would estimate three
	weeks. Remember: I am not a mealy mouthed
	psalm [sic] canting preacher. I am a minister 
	of the Church of Scientology I am able to heal the
	sick and I do. But I have other abilities which in-
	clude a knowledge of men's minds that I will use to
	crush you to your knees. You or any other wretch
	that stands in our way. Cause the list is long, but
	their careers are very short of those that have
	jousted with us.

	The letter, written on the Church of Scientology letter-
head, was signed "with the utmost sincerity possible" by
the Reverend Andrew Bagley, Organisational Secretary.
There was a short P.S. appended: "Don't reply to this
letter. If I want to get in touch with you, I'll be able 
to find you. Anywhere." P.S. The father paid the bill.
P.P.S. His son took approximately $4,500 worth more
courses in Scientology paying for them himself the next
time from a $5,000 inheritance.

	Scientologists get people to pay substantial fees by
promising to refund their money if they are dissatisfied
with Scientology and they are quick to point out that
no psychotherapist returns money if therapy proves un-
successful (although they are just as quick to point out
that they are not a form of therapy). In fact, 
the Scientologists haven't always returned the money either, 
and have sometimes set up certain conditions that have made it difficult 
for people to collect. The person must
usually ask for his money within thirty (sometimes 
ninety) days after the course is completed. Some people 
have also been made to take the security test before 
they can get a refund. Others have signed a contract
that obligates them to obey their Ethics Officer "in

end page 156

advice given me to facilitate my case progress and that any failure 
to do so renders this contract null and void without rebate." 
(The Ethics Officer can of course, tell them not to ask for 
their money back, because that would be undoing their process, 
and tell them to facilitate it by signing up for more courses 
instead.)

	In one case, an Australian woman signed up for three hundred 
hours of auditing, took 175, and then asked for her money back. 
The register wrote her back that "the only way out is the way through" 
in other words, that she would have to take all 300 hours before 
she could leave Scientology and ask for her money back. This 
could cost her another $600 which she didn't have, so she wrote 
them back again. Again they wrote her "I repeat, the only 
way out is the way through." The following is a portion of her 
extremely pathetic reply, listing the emotional and financial 
difficulties that she felt Scientologist was responsible for.

	. . . my situation has in every way worsened under the influence 
	of Scientology I have to struggle to even stay awake, and 
	as a consequence, I fear to lose my job and the little security 
	that gives me. It takes a frightful effort not to go to sleep... 
	I am slow in my work and make mistakes I am always exhausted 
	and sometimes can hardly walk along. This is the result I have 
	obtained from Spending all my money on something that is claimed 
	to increase alertness and intelligence and generally benefit 
	people...
		Under these circumstances it is no help to be told "the way 
	out is the way through." I have no money left for further auditing 
	and no chance of saving any since I barely make ends meet.

	When nothing happened, she wrote directly to Hubbard, as do many 
Scientologists, putting letters in special boxes in the Orgs 
that say "You can always communicate with Ron."
	At the commencement I had a job I liked, which paid me fairly 
	well, and enough money put away

end page 157

	to feel reasonably secure. Now I have a job I don't care for, 
	which does not pay so well, my money is largely gone, and instead 
	of being reasonably content I feel that nothing is worth doing. 
	having periods of absolute exhaustion. and look forward to 
	the remaining years of my life with complete
	hopelessness, as just a dreary round of work,
	work, work at something I don't care for to earn
	enough to exist to go on working.

	Hubbard referred this letter to the Melbourne Org,
where it was diagnosed as a case of "Missed W/H." She
was persuaded to undergo twenty-five hours of free proc-
essing for her "Missed withholds." Two years later she
was still a Scientologist and paying for it.

end page 158

	CHAPTER TWENTY

	THE TRUTH ABOUT L. RON HUBBARD

		For heaven's sake, tell them I'm not God.
					L. Ron Hubbard, quoted
					by Eric Barnes, Public 
					Relations Chief of 
					New York Church
					of Scientology

	Lafayette Ronald Hubbard, born in 1911 in Tilden, Nebraska, 
is a man of many talents and accomplishments, although not quite 
as many as he claims. In a number of biographies and autobiographies, 
both types of which were said to have been written by him, he 
claims to have been descended from Count de Loup, to be part 
French and Scotch and to have part of his family come from Little 
Clacton, Essex. He claims to have been a blood brother of the 
Pikuni Indians, "fast friends" with Calvin Coolidge Jr., and 
to be the real life model for the book, play, and movie, Mister 
Roberts. He also claims to have graduated in mathematics and 
engineering from Columbian University (a part of George Washington 
University), sometimes claims to have graduated in civil engineering 
from George Washington University, to have attended Princeton 
University (sometimes the Princeton School of Government) and 
to have gotten a Ph.D. from Sequoia University. He was a prolific 
writer, a singer, an explorer (and claims to have been a member 
of the Explorers Club since 1936), a seaman, a

end page 159

Lieutenant in the navy, who was severely injured in 
the war. Many of these things are true; for example, his
family does come from Little Clacton, Essex, he was a
 writer, he was an explorer (and a member of the Ex-
plorers Club, but since 1940. not 1936 as he claimed).
he was severely injured in the war (and in fact was in a
lifeboat for many days, badly injuring his body and his
eyes in the hot Pacific sun). But there are a number 
of unimportant things in his Brief Biography 
of L. Ron Hubbard (which his son claims his father really
 wrote) that were exposed by the Daily Mail in England
as false. Because of these errors, it tends to cast suspi-
cion, perhaps unjustly, on the rest. Actually, most of the
"errors" in that biography and others, with the excep-
tion of his academic background, were simply sins by
omission. Although Hubbard admits he wrote Screen-
plays and westerns, it was in science fiction that 
he  made his mark, a fact he conveniently omitted in 
his Brief Biography and frequently underplayed elsewhere.
This is important because a science fiction background
is not considered good preparation for the under-
standing of true scientific phenomena and also because
Hubbard wrote so much science fiction at one time that it would 
seem almost impossible that he could have
carried on the careful research he claimed he did 
to formulate Dianetics upon which Scientology is based.
Nonetheless, Hubbard says Dianetics was based on his
exhaustive research with 270 subjects, and this research
formed the basis of his engram and other theories. A re-
cent article in Freedom stated that Hubbard spent thirtyfive
years researching the mind before Dianetics came
out. If this is true, it means that he started researching
at the age of three. Generally, Hubbard is content 
to have people believe he spent twelve years researching
Dianetics before coming out with his basic book, Diane-
tics: The Modern Science of Mental Health. He says
that the research began with his 1938 book, Excalibur
which appears to have been the manuscript he claims
was stolen by the Russians. During these twelve years,

end page 160

especially in the last three or four before Dianetics came out, 
he wrote at least seventy-eight science fiction stories alone 
(under his name, or the pseudonyms of Rene Lafayette and Kurt 
Van Strachen) not to mention writing in other fields. With all 
this writing. it's hard to believe he had the time to research 
those 270 subjects properly (to research them properly would 
require 540 people; a control group that has not been given the 
Dianetic treatment should have been included in the sample). 
With the exception of his one article on Dianetics published 
in a science fiction magazine, a cursory examination of Hubbard's 
other stories show no indication that his imagination was being 
applied to the science rather than the fiction. The one exception 
is a story written in 1938 called "Her Majesty's Aberration" 
but it appears that only the title presaged anything that was 
to come later.)

	Another thing that Hubbard was doing at the time also apparently 
not conducive to Dianetics research, and also an item he failed 
to mention in his "autobiographies" was that he was possibly 
practicing black magic. Alexander Mitchell, who writes for the 
Sunday Times in England, claimed that Hubbard was once practicing 
witchcraft with John Parsons, who joined the American branch 
of the cult of Aleister Crowley, the reknowned sorcerer and 
mystic. Parsons got Hubbard to act as a high priest during 
a number of rituals, during which time Parsons had sexual relations 
with his girl friend, Betty, who was also allegedly having relations 
with Hubbard. Hubbard seemed unconcerned about the competition, 
though, since Mitchell wrote that in the "climax" of the ritual, 
he allegedly "worked" his two subjects into a sexual frenzy."

	In addition to these sexual unions, there seems to have been 
some pooling of finances on a business partnership. Parsons 
was believed to have invested $17,000, Hubbard about $10,000, 
and Parson's girl friend Betty nothing. But it was said that 
Hubbard used about $10,000 of this to buy a yacht, while his 
friend Parsons

end page 161

 was "living at rock bottom and I mean rock bottom,"
according to another cult member. Aleister Crowley ca-
bled his United States office that he "suspected" 
that Hubbard was playing a "confidence trick" since Parsons
had given away his girl friend and his money to Hubbard

	Eventually Parsons did recover the yacht, describing how 
in a letter to Crowley, reprinted by the Sunday Times

	Hubbard attempted to escape me by sailing at 5 P.M. 
	and performed a full invocation to Bartzabel
	within the circle at 8 P.M. (a curse). At the same 
	time, however, his ship was struck by a sudden
	squall off the coast which ripped off his sails and
	forced him back to port where I took the boat in custody.

	All this happened after the war, at approximately the
time when Hubbard claimed he had resumed his studies
of Dianetics.

	In his biographies Hubbard conveniently omitted or
altered his educational qualifications. In his Brief 
Biography, he said he had graduated from Columbian Uni-
versity and in Who's Who in the Southwest (they claim he supplied 
the data) he said he graduated in .Civil En-
gineering from George Washington University. (He has 
sometimes used a C.E. after his name.) Hubbard has even 
dedicated one of his books to his "instructors in atomic and 
molecular phenomenon, mathematics and the humanities at George 
Washington University and at
Princeton," and in his Brief Biography he said he "ex-
celled in but thoroughly detested his subjects." Actually
his grades were appallingly low. Although he did do well
in his engineering and English courses, the man who
frequently calls himself a nuclear physicist got a D in one 
physics course, an E in another, and in the atomic and molecular 
physics courses that he most often emphasises (to the degree 
of thanking his instructors for it), he received an F. With 
those grades, along with similar ones in mathematics, it is not 
surprising that Hubbard

end page 162


was placed on probation after his first .year in college 
and didn't return for his second and  ---of course never received 
the degrees that he claims he has. As for the Princeton School 
of Government that he said he attended, it was the Princeton 
School of Military.' Government, and he went there only three 
months in what was possibly a war service course. Hubbard also 
claims to have a Ph.D. from Sequoia University. Sequoia was 
originally called the College of Drugless Healing, and might 
have been called the College of Instant Learning, since it has 
been traced by the United States government to a residential 
dwelling in Los Angeles which operated through a post office 
box and delivered mail order doctorates without the formality 
of exams, or for that matter, of classroom attendance. In fact, 
Hubbard didn't even have to pay for that degree it was an Honorary.' 
Degree for his work in Dianetics. A Harvard student discovered 
that Hubbard was also on the staff of the school; might Sequoia 
be another name for one of Hubbard's own establishments? (Hubbard's 
establishments have variously been called Hubbard College, Hubbard 
International School for Children, The Apostolic Church of Theological 
Scientologists, The Academy of Religious Arts and Sciences, 
Church of American Science, Church of the New Faith, Scientology 
Consultants for Industrial Efficiency, National Academy for 
American Psychology.)

	Nonetheless, Hubbard apparently considered this "doctorate" 
to be significant because he renounced it in a public notice:
	I, L. Ron Hubbard of Saint Hill Manor East Grinstead Sussex 
	having reviewed the damage being done in our society with nuclear 
	physics and psychiatry by persons calling themselves "Doctors" 
	do hereby resign in protest my university deuce as a Doctor 
	of Philosophy (Ph.D.) anticipating an early public outcry against 
	anyone called "Doctor" and although not in any way connected 
	with bombs or "psychiatric treatment" or treatment of

end page 163

	such and interested only and always in philosophy
	and the total freedom of the human spirit, I wish no association 
	of any kind with these persons and so do publicly declare and 
	request my friends and the public not to refer to me in any 
	way than this title.

	Even so, Hubbard is referred to as "doctor." has
used the title himself and he does indeed have a D.
Scn., or Doctor of Scientology.. But that even this degree
is haphazardly awarded became apparent when Hubb
bard's son, L. Ron Hubbard Jr., who also has a D. 
Scn, testified at the United States Court of Claims that he
didn't have to do anything special to get the degree, 
and in fact, wasn't certain whether he got his Bachelor of
Scientology before or after he got his Doctorate of
Scientology.

	Another omission in his biographies and one can
hardly blame him for it are the dates of his various
marriages and divorces. In the Scientology Security
Check, a preclear is asked whether he has ever commit-
ted bigamy. Perhaps Hubbard should have put himself
on the meter. On April 13, 1933, he married Louise
Grubb at Elkton, Maryland, and had two children 
by her. In December of 1945, she claimed he abandoned
her and the children, and she filed suit for divorce on
April 14, 1947. The divorce was granted on December
24, 1947, in Port Orchard, Washington. The only
problem is that on August .10, 1946, in Chestertown,
Maryland, Hubbard married Sara ___________ 8
months before the divorce suit was filed, and a year
and a half before it was finalized.

	Also omitted, obviously, are the speculations that
have been made about his sanity. The Australian 
Re- port said that "expert psychiatric witnesses" 
were of the opinion that Hubbard's writings indicated "symptoms
of paranoid schizophrenia of long standing with delusions
of grandeur." There have been rumours for years
about Hubbard's sanity, and he has acknowledged these
rumors:

end page 164

	Two million traceable dollars were spent to halt this work [Dianetics 
	and Scientology] All that has survived of this attack by 
	the two A.P.A.'s, the A.M.A. and several universities is a clutter 
	of rumours concerning your sanity and mine and rumours no longer 
	financed will some day die. 

	The Australian Inquiry finally came to the conclusion that 
Hubbard's "sanity was to be gravely doubted." Certainly some 
of Hubbard's statements. even coming from a former science 
fiction writer, do sound rather strange. Hubbard claims to 
have visited Venus, the Van Allen Radiation 
belt, and heaven twice. The first time in heaven, he said, 
was from "the moment of the implant to forget... 43,891,832,611,177 
years 344 days, 10 hours, 20 minutes and 40 seconds from 10:02 
to 2 P.M. Daylight Greenwich Time, May 9, 1963. The second time 
was about a trillion years later. Lest anyone doubt he was there, 
or think that he might have ended up in the wrong place, he 
described Heaven as follows: 

	The gates of the first series are well done, well built. An Avenue of 
	statues of saints leads up to them. The gate pillars are surmounted 
	by marble angels. The entering Founds are very well kept, laid 
	out like Bush Gardens in Pasadena, so often seen in the movies.
		The second series... is shabby. The vegetation is gone. The 
	pillars are scruffy. The saints have vanished. So have the angels. 
	A sign on one (the left as you enter) says "This is Heaven." 
	The right one says "Hell." 

In addition to having visited Heaven, Hubbard has also 
rewritten Genesis. "Before the Beginning was 
a Cause and the entire purpose of the Cause was the creation 
of effect," etc. He has also rewritten the calendar to read 
"A.D. 1, A.D. 10," etc., (to stand for "After Dianetics 1951," 
"After Dianetics 1961"), as if his discoveries were as important 
as the birth of Christ. when Hubbard first came out with 
Dianetics he wrote that it was a "milestone for Man comparable 
to his discovery of fire

end page 165

and superior to his invention of the wheel and arch." Now he 
sees Scientology as purer than Buddhism, Taoism and Christianity.

	Hubbard's "case studies" contain a constant repetition of torture 
themes in which people he held in bondage, inflicted with pain 
or violently killed. He often attributes (or projects) the cause 
of neurosis or engrams to the father's committing violent physical 
acts against the mother while she was pregnant or in the act 
of conceiving, as in the following "case study" Hubbard presented.
	Fight between mother and father shortly after con-
	ception. Father strikes mother in the stomach. She
	screams and he says "Goddamn you, I hate
	you! You are no good. I'm going to kill you."
	Mother says, "Please don't hit me again. Please
	don't. I'm hurt. I'm frantic with pain." Father says,
	"Lie there and rot, damn you, good-bye."

	An even more violent example which one of his re'-
search subjects allegedly remembered, occurred when
the child in the womb got an engram when her father 'knelt 
on her mother and started choking her before raping her.

	FATHER: Stay here! Stay down, damn you, you bitch! I'm going 
	to kill you this time. I said I would and I will. Take that! 
	(his knee grinds into the mother's abdomen) You better start 
	screaming.. Go on, Scream for mercy! Why don't you break down! 
	Don't worry, you will. You'll be around here, screaming 
	for mercy! The louder you scream the worse you'll get. That's 
	what I want to hear! I'm a punk kid, am I? You're the punk kid! 
	I could finish you now but I'm not going to! . . . This is just 
	a sample. There's a lot more than that where it came from! I 
	hope it hurts! I hope it makes you cry! You say a word to anybody 
	and I'll kill you in earnest!... I'm going to bust your face 
	in. You don't know what it is to

end page 166

	be hurt! I know what I'm going to do to you now! I'm going 
	to punish you! etc.

	Hubbard's hostility and unconscious obsession with violence 
runs through all of his writings. But it was apparent even 
before he presented Dianetics or Scientology,. One of his earlier 
pseudonyms was "Winchester Remington Colt" and although it's
possible he consciously chose the name for its euphony it 
does seem strange that all three names are those of guns. Freudians 
could have a field day with this pseudonym, and its obvious 
phallic counterpart, perhaps surmising that he unconsciously 
chose the name to compensate for other weaknesses.

end page 167
blank page
end page 168

	CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

	DOES SCIENTOLOGY WORK?

		I would say there .is no validity [to Scientology 
		processing]. But within Scientology you 
		find a great deal of very direct truths, but then 
		it is sort of like a bre'r rabbit tar baby. Inside 
		the tar is this little nugget of truth; but all this 
		black tar is over the side of it so people reach 
		for the truth and they get all hung up in the 
		tar and the various organisations and the 
		science itself becomes perverted.
						L. Ron Hubbard Jr.

	Hubbard once claimed that processing could help or cure such 
ailments as astigmatism, arthritis, allergies, asthma, bursitis, 
cataracts, some coronary difficulties, colds, dermatitis, possibly 
diabetes, glandular imbalance, leukemia (which Hubbard said 
may have been caused by an engram which recorded the expression 
"it turns my blood to water"), migraine headaches, polio, radiation 
burns, sinusitis, typhoid realfunctioning, tuberculosis, ulcers, 
etc. In addition, Dianetics, and possibly Scientology is supposed 
to "turn on and run out incipient cancer," and Hubbard believed 
that cancer, "especially malignant cancer," may be caused by 
engrams. One man in Scientology who was dying of a malignant growth 
in his stomach spent two and a half to six hours a day for 
several months while his auditor asked him (among other things): 
"What stomach can you confront? .... What stomach would you 
rather not con-

end page 169

front? Think of a stomach you can confront?"
"Think of a stomach you'd rather not confront," etc.
The man died.

	Hubbard has also claimed that Dianetics or Scientology
can alter the shape of the body and make people
grow taller. make them ambidextrous. make the insane
sane, cure chronic chills, impotency, manic states. 
laryngitis. make children more beautiful. change the 
personality, improve Parkinson's disease. and make large
bruises disappear in forty-five minutes. Scientology, processing
can apparently even bring the dead back to life,
since Hubbard described a miracle one of his auditors
performed that he said "the Pope himself would have
been proud to own." Hubbard claims they brought a
dead child back to life by ordering the thetan back and
telling him to take over the body again.

	Unfortunately, many of Hubbard's claims have not
been and cannot be substantiated. There isn't time to
analyse all of these claims. One claim, however, is that
Scientology, can relieve radiation burns. and that the re-
action to radiation in persons who have been given proc-
essing was "by actual tests" much lower than those
who have not received it. Hubbard considers himself to
be an expert in this field, and even wrote a book as a
"nuclear physicist" entitled All About Radiation. As in
almost all of Hubbard's books, the dedication was more
interesting than the book. That one was dedicated to
Winston Churchill "who could have written and said it
much better" and Dwight David Eisenhower "who
could solve it if he had a little more cooperation."

	In All About Radiation Hubbard said they could
"run out radiation" and "proof' people up against it.
How can he prove such claims? He can't. So Scientologists 
simply say that they can cure the radiation we have
in our bodies right now from our past lives. One can
doubt it, but it's hard to disprove. They even sold a pill,
Dianeze, to be used to wipe out radiation from our cur-
rent and past lives.

	Scientology., is supposed to improve marriages, but

end page 170

the rate of divorce at the Orgs would put Hollywood to shame. 
Even Hubbard has been married three times. Two of the marriages 
were very stormy (he claims that this is because his first wives 
weren't Scientologists, while his current one is he not only 
met her in Dianetics but she sometimes acts as his auditor). 
Scientology is supposed to cure frigidity. One woman who went 
to Scientology for that purpose was taught things that caused 
her husband to get a separate bed. Eventually he divorced her. 
In another case, a man refused to have sex with his wife because 
he felt he was too high on Hubbard's "tone scale" and that his 
wife was too low to bother.

	Scientology is supposed to improve creativity but some Scientologists, 
while believing they're getting more and more creative every 
day, actually have stopped painting, writing, and sculpting, 
and spend all of their time on Scientology Scientology' is 
supposed to improve memory, but the one time Hubbard publicly 
introduced a clear who was supposed to be able to remember everything, 
including every single moment of her past, most of the audience 
of 6,000 people walked out when she was unable to remember a 
single formula in physics the subject she was majoring in at 
the time-or even the colour of Hubbard's tie when his back was 
turned. Scientology claims it can increase a person's I.Q., 
while actually the I.Q. can't be increased substantially. Nonetheless, 
Hubbard wrote President Kennedy that Scientology could increase 
the I.Q. at the rate of one point for every hour of auditing, 
and he once told a reporter that he had raised an I.Q. from 
83 to 212. Like many of Hubbard's claims, however, raising the 
I.Q. makes for good advertising copy and helps to bring insecure 
people into the Orgs. Hubbard told his followers that if someone's 
I.Q. is low, tell him "Scientology' training can raise that." 
If it's high, tell him "IQ. means little unless a person knows 
something with it.". Furthermore, afterwards, these people feel 
that they've been helped by Scientology because they believe 
that their I Q has

end page 171

been raised. What has actually improved is only 
the score on their IQ. test ---and why shouldn't it? there is 
some evidence that the Scientologists give the same test
twice. Psychologists for years have been aware of the 
"practice effect" which means, in effect, that someone
given the same test twice will do better the second time,
not because they'll cheat and look up the answers they 
missed, or discuss it with someone else who took the
test, which is always a possibility, but because 
they are familiar with the surroundings, they understand the 
test and the directions better, they are less nervous, etc. Not
true, says Hubbard, "Everybody in the... Universe is on a 'mustn't 
happen again' and we automatically figure that a test taken twice 
will get a worse grade the second time".

	One of the reasons that many of Scientologists
claims can't be substantiated is that much of Hubbard's 
research runs counter to common knowledge some-
times to common sense. during the days of Dianetics,
for instance, perhaps it should have been called "Diarrhetics"
since Hubbard gave preclears large doses 
of a haphazard mixture of vitamins and glutamic acid called
"guk" in order to make them "run better" ----although
there's little evidence elsewhere that diarrhea improves
mental health. His theory of the Boo-Hoo, or the pri-
meval clam, is another example of his strange reason-
ing. He stated that his Boo Hoo which "marked the
transition from life in the sea to life on land" had a mis-
erable life because it could get stranded or attacked by
predatory birds. But if life was just emerging from the
sea, where did the predatory birds come from? Another
claim: In his book called the History of Man he used
the example of Pittdown Man to support one of his
theories. Even after Piltdown Man was exposed as a sci-
entific hoax, Hubbard didn't change his theory. In the
same book, he told how Scientology could cure tooth-
aches, a description which would surely make every
dentist or even medically knowledgeable person cringe:

	The Pulp of a tooth, for instance, tracks back, cell

end page 172

	by cell, to early engrams: when these are relieved a "toothache" 
	in that tooth becomes almost impossible, no matter how many 
	"nerves" are exposed, a matter which brings about quite a revolution 
	in dentistry.

	In his best-seller. Dianetics The Modern Science of Mental 
Health, he said that Dianetics could improve healing as follows:
	...calcium deposits, for example, can make the ears ring incessantly. 
	The removal of aberrations permits the ear to readjust toward 
	its reachable optimum, the calcium deposits disappear and the 
	ears stop ringing. 

	The trouble with this is that it has never been proven in the 
first place that calcium deposits cause ringing in the ear.

	Perhaps some of these discrepancies have appeared because of 
the nature of Hubbard's "research" discussed in the last chapter. 
According to his second wife, who was married to him at the 
time he was supposed to be doing his research, there was no 
research done, no subjects run, the book was written in three 
months off the top of his head, and the "case studies" were 
the figment of his fertile imagination. Furthermore, as many 
people have suspected, she said the 1938 supposedly stolen manuscript 
Excalibur did not exist. She said it was one of those books 
that Hubbard always said he might like to write one day.

	A reading of Hubbard's case studies seems to support the notion 
that his Dianetic theories emerged from his own imagination. 
Those cases that Hubbard described "in detail," which for him 
meant two pages, are simply rather hard to believe. For example, 
he cited the case of a man who got an impacted wisdom tooth 
which had to be pulled, a situation that ultimately led to the 
man's being put in a mental institution. In the beginning of 
this "case history" the man met a nurse who was "sexually aberrated" 
and an "aberee among aberees," who pumped him for information 
about his life while he was

end page 173

unconscious. A few years later he met someone similar
to the nurse, divorced his wife and married the pseudo
nurse. His teeth got worse. His cavities increased. His
memory degenerated. He developed eye troubles and a
strange conjunctivitis. His lungs hurt. His energy dissi-
pated. And because the dentist leaned on his stomach
 and chest with a sharp elbow during the wisdom teeth
operation, he had stomach pains. Naturally he started
 beating his wife, in this case because the dentist 
had been angry with the original nurse. The wife, in turn, at-
tempted suicide. And this man ended up in 
a mental institution. "Only the cavalry in this one case, arrived 
in the form of Dianetics and cleared the patient and the
wife and they are happy today. This is an actual engram and 
an actual case history," Hubbard added, just in case no one 
believed him. Ira Wallach in Hopalong Freud poked fun at 
Hubbard's scientific experiments "Here is a classic example
of the flex" he wrote, meaning an engram,

	drawn from one of the 855 patients on whom the
	Diapetic Institute conducted clinical tests with
	maddeningly strict scientific controls. 
	Shortly after conception the foetus in question overheard an ar-
	gument between its parents. The argument, acri-
	monious in character, reached its climax when the
	mother shouted "Go ahead, you son of a bitch, hit
	me with that andiron..." whenever the patient 
	in adult life caught sight of an andiron (or a son
	of a bitch) he insisted upon being beaten on the
	head...

	Yet Scientologists take as gospel truth every word that Hubbard 
writes, even if they don't understand it. Although some of 
Hubbard's writing is poetic, some of it is also incomprehensible 
and a lot of it is just pretentious. Some of this may be a put-on, 
for example, he wrote an article telling his followers that 
it was best to use soup cans for the E-meter, and titled the 
article "Emeter Electrodes: A Dissertation on Soup Cans." But 
Hubbard also seems to try deliberately to be incomprehensible

end page 174

perhaps confusing inscrutability with wisdom. He 
has written seven Prelogics and twenty-four Logics plus fifty-eight 
Scientology axioms ("AFFINITY IS A SCALE OF ATTITUDES WHlCH 
FALLS AWAY FROM THE COEXISTENCE OF STATIC, THROUGH THE INTERPOSITIONS OF 
DISTANCE AND ENERGY TO 
CREATE IDENTITY DOWN TO CLOSE PROXIMITY 
BUT MYSTERY"). and one hundred-ninety-four Dianetic axioms 
"THETA VIA LAMDA EFFECTS AN EVOLUTION OF 
MEST"). The Australian Report comment-
ed on these, saying that "as axioms they claim to be .self-evident 
truths, but they are neither true nor self evident."

	Any yet Hubbard, the same person who wrote the above, is always 
saying that Scientologists should never go past any word they 
don't understand, and he even goes to the trouble of defining 
simple little words like "synonymous" for his followers. Perhaps 
he should have also defined the following:
	I think...if what we really observed was what we were observing 
	that we always observed to observe. And not necessarily maintaining 
	a skeptical attitude, a critical attitude, or an open mind. 
	But certainly maintaining sufficient personal Integrity and 
	sufficient personal belief and confidence in self and courage 
	that we observe what we observe and weigh what we have observed.

	Still his followers believe that every word he writes is The 
Truth. In fact, a group of Hubbard's admirers wrote a book comparing 
his statements with the Bible (along with Saint Thomas Aquinas) 
where they believed the meanings were parallel.

	It's hard to believe that Scientology' or Dianetics has actually 
ever helped anybody. Yet the Scientologists have testimonial 
books in their lobby filled with "success stories" of people 
who have been helped by Scientology, and they even have a Director 
of Success at the Orgs who elicits these testimonials. The testimonials 

end page 175

delivered do not tell of long range effects, however. Even if 
these testimonials are not of very much value, the fact
remains that a great number of people believe that they 
have been helped by Scientology and Dianetics, and probably 
many of them have been helped. Below are two testimonials, 
and while there were literally hundreds to choose from, these 
two were very complete, listing a large number of ailments that 
had been cured and a variety of ways that Dianetics had helped them.

	The first letter comes from a 35-year old woman who
had an unbelievable host of symptoms: she used to cry
all the time, couldn't see very well was very nervous,
had trouble gaining weight, was inhibited, dependent,
afraid of crowds, had pains on her side, the measles she
 had at eleven seemed to have "settled in her left eye,"
 was constantly talking, and had two operations during
the time she was in Dianetics. She kept a diary over 
a period of a few months to show how processing had not
only helped her relieve a large number of these symptoms
but enabled her breasts and feet to grow and 
her hair to curl:
	My hair... in the last three weeks it curls more
	than ever I can't explain it but my feet seem to
	be growing! Of course I am developing more all over. I have 
	had rather large pores around my nose for several years. In 
	the last week I noticed that my skin has smoothed out and is 
	more like when I was twenty... about two months ago I noticed 
	my feet seemed to be growing . . . before
	 starting on these sessions my breasts were unusual-
	ly small. In fact, I wore a size 32A brassiere... I
	am now wearing a size 34C and from all indica-
	tions will wear still larger. My breasts never really
	 developed as they should, but now, thanks to
	Dianetics, I am beginning to be as nature intended.

	Although no one in the center apparently recognised
it, including Hubbard who presented this case, any doc-
tor or psychiatrist would have immediately questioned

end page 176

whether she was being helped or whether a basic schizophrenic 
condition was being exacerbated- As she continued to be processed 
(and the above entry represents diary jottings from several 
months) she thought she was being helped, but perhaps she was 
actually acquiring or aggravating schizophrenic symptoms. It 
is a fairly common delusion among a certain type of schizophrenic 
that parts of the body are growing and changing.
	The next letter is a testimonial to a Dianetics Center: During 
	the past week through Dianetics processing I have been relieved 
	of pains in the stomach due to ulcers; have regained hearing 
	in my right ear in which I have been deaf for three and a half 
	years; have regained the ability to breathe through my nostrils 
	which I had not been able to do for the past six or seven years; 
	have been relieved of severe constipation which has been continuous 
	for at least six years and now my stools are entirely normal; 
	the burning sensation of my eyes of eight or nine years duration 
	caused by electrical flashes has been relieved, and I am no 
	longer bothered by headaches after using my eyes for reading. 
	I had not been able to do any extensive reading at night 
	for the past seven or eight years without getting headaches 
	and for several years I have had cramps in my legs and feet 
	at night until the past week....
Many people would agree, however, that this letter comes from 
an extremely neurotic woman, whose ailments were probably psychosomatic. 
They couldn't have been cured in a week without medication if 
they had really had a physiological basis. For her, Dianetics 
seems to have acted as a form of faith healing, and like any 
form of faith healing, Dianetics and Scientology can be effective however 
they may be effective only on those who are so suggestible that 
they might have been helped by anything so long as they believed 
in it and stayed with it. But what happens when a Scientologist 
loses faith and stops believing? Most Scientologists never find 
out because they never lose faith and leave.

end page 177

Instead of preparing them to cope with the real world, as therapy 
would, Scientology prepares them to cope with the world of Scientology. 
There are always new courses for them to take. When they get 
tired of being audited they can always audit others. When they 
get tired of the Org they can join the Sea Org. And when they 
get tired of all that, they can get a franchise -excuse me, 
start a mission and go into the Scientology business themselves. 
Thus, they may be helped, but only at a tremendous cost in time 
and money.

	For some the cost is even higher. In one case, Robert Kaufman, 
who wrote a fascinating book called How I Joined Scientology 
and Became Superhuman, was in a New York Scientology. franchise 
at first, but then went to Saint Hill to take the advanced courses 
that are offered there. Not long after his arrival there, he 
was upset to see two Scientologists who were in an advanced 
state of severe emotional disturbance under twentyfour-hour 
watch He was told that one had just gone clear and that the 
other was in the midst of the course. In addition, he was appalled 
by what he describes as "the police-state type atmosphere of 
the place and constant punishments, like the dirty-gray armbands 
they forced people to wear for the most trivial mistake." He 
writes that he "was in a state of walking hypnotism. Part of 
me was repelled by what I saw, and the other part of me desperately 
wanted to go on to catch the Golden Fleece and go 'clear.'" 
He went clear after he left Saint Hill and went to Edinburgh, 
but he discovered that the symptoms that had started at Saint 
Hill were getting worse. He still couldn't sleep at night, and 
when he would finally collapse from exhaustion, he would. wake 
up in the morning with an acute attack of anxiety. Fearing 
that his symptoms would get worse if he stopped, he continued 
on with the next three secret upper levels, whose description 
is so strange as to be almost unbelievable. Kaufman claims that 
these strange exercises caused him to "undergo extreme disorientation 
and splitting of personality" plus a new symptom:

end page 178


an obsession to commit suicide. He says that all during this 
time "I felt rotten, but every time I reached another level, 
everyone would smile, pat me on the back, hand me my certificates 
diplomas and take my money for the next course." By the end 
of this time, plus a brief stint back in America. he had spent 
about $8,000 in Scientology and the only thing that kept him 
from suicide was his fear that if he did so it would "invalidate 
Scientology" and his name would be put on the bulletin board. 
(Kaufman was the man mentioned earlier who was so upset over 
the notices posted on the bulletin board about the epileptic 
who died.) But in the end he no longer cared, and in order to 
save his own life, he voluntarily committed himself to a mental 
institution. Today he is out of the hospital and has no desire 
ever to return to Scientology

	Another even worse case involves a Falls Church, Virginia, couple 
and their two children: one was retarded and the other. while 
speaking early in his life, later stopped talking.' The couple 
went to Scientology for help with the second child, and Hubbard, 
his wife, and several others in the Washington Church at that 
time all promised to increase the child's I.Q., "improve on 
nature whatever happened to be the defect," and cause him to 
speak within a specific number of hours. At the end of the 
twelve-week session, when the child still couldn't speak, the 
distraught parents were told that 'the Scientologists were at 
a near breakthrough and that they should continue with the processing 
and take more courses than they had originally agreed upon. 
The couple could ill afford to lose this money, since they raised 
it by cashing in life insurance bonds and a small inheritance. 
Although it eventually cost them over $3,000 "as a contribution 
to spiritual guidance," the child was never able to speak.

	The Australian Report presented something worse, as they put 
it, a woman "processed into insanity'." They had set up a special 
two-way mirror to witness Scientology techniques so that they 
could judge the merits of

end page 179

their auditing. Such a situation would of course be a little 
different than a regular auditing session, since the person 
was aware that he was being observed, and the
sessions were shorter than the usual.

	They watched a woman who had already had sixty
hours of Scientology' processing and had signed up for a total 
of 300. At the beginning of the session she said her goals for 
the session were that she would get "wins" and feel more positive 
about things, that she would feel calmer, and she could handle 
situations at home. At the conclusion of the session, when her 
goals were read out to her, she claimed she had made "gains" 
in all of them. Nine days later she entered a mental hospital. 
A psychiatrist who saw the transcript of the demonstration session 
told the board that her behaviour obviously indicated she was 
in a state of mania-not-ecstasy and that this would have been 
apparent to a psychiatrist.

A slightly similar case occurred in England. In March, 1967, 
Mr. Peter Hordern got up in Parliament to describe the case 
of one of his constituents, Karen Henslow, a thirty-year-old 
manic-depressive who had been institutionalized three times. 
Scientologists were aware of her background. Her contact with 
Scientology started when she met at a dance an Australian, Murray
Youdell, who was taking the highest auditing grade 
at Saint Hill. He began to audit Miss Henslow, although she told 
him of her illness, and in January she was interviewed at Saint 
Hill. Karen told her mother that she had mentioned her illness 
to them, saying "I told her all about my illness and I cried. 
She [probably the registrar] was sweet and understanding." Later, 
in May, she was offered a job as a "Progress and Filing Clerk" for
about $18 a week, of which she had to relinquish about
$10 for bed and breakfast.

	After two weeks in Scientology she disconnected
from her mother and wrote saying, "... I do not want
to see you or hear from you again. From now on you
don't exist in my life.. ," The same day the mother re-
ceived a second letter, with no date, apologising for the

end page 180

first letter and saying she wanted to "nullify it as a communication," 
and that it was mailed without her permission. "You are the 
last person I want to disconnect from" she wrote. Later, among 
Karen's possessions were four more letters labeling friends and 
relatives suppressive.

	On July 27, two months after she began Scientology, Karen arrived 
at her mother's house dressed in only a nightgown and raincoat 
and shoes and "in a completely deranged condition," according 
to her mother. With her was Mr. Youdell, along with another 
Scientologist Mrs Henslow said the other Scientologist had processed' 
Karen for three hours the previous night to try to get
her better. It apparently didn't work. Later that night Karen 
went screaming from her house and was subsequently put in a 
mental institution. The consulting psychiatrist in charge of 
her case allegedly said that Scientology had "probably precipitated" 
her collapse. Karen felt she had benefited from scientology 
and stated that she wanted to return to it when she left the 
hospital.

	During a subsequent interview on the matter, Mr. Youdell, who 
had gotten Karen into Scientology allegedly "answered...
questions... with an unblinking stare and a colleague said 
Mr. Youdell was 'in cycle' and not to be interrupted," and referred 
inquiries to Mr. Reg. Sharpe, Mr- Hubbard's personal assistant.

	Mr. Sharpe, a man in his sixties who wears the badge of: a "clear" 
and is said to work for Hubbard for no pay, said "We tried to 
help this girl. We did not know she had a mental history. We 
do not take on for processing anyone who has got a mental history." 
That such a statement is not true seems obvious not only from 
this case (although the Scientologists claim that they did not 
know about her illness but that only Murray Youdell did), but 
also from another letter reported by the Daily Mail in England. 
This letter was allegedly written by two Scientologists to tell 
the "success story" of a girl who went to Saint Hill: "At that 
time Hilary was completely broken down in mind and body; having spent

end page 181

the past four years in various mental hospitals undergoing treatment

	In reading Hubbard's work one comes across refer-
ence to "psychotic" people that were helped, and in his
PABS (Preclear Auditor's Book) #3 Hubbard even told
what procedure to use in "Processing psychotics vs. neu-
rotics." That Scientology do occasionally take in men-
tally disturbed people was also revealed in court during
one of the American tax cases. They admitted that they
did take in mental cases because a registrar would feel
sorry for someone with a problem and want to help
them. Attorney Michael. I. Sanders had asked:
	Q: Were exceptions [i.e.people taken in who were
	disturbed] made in those cases where the preclear-
	had available funds?
	A: There would usually be, because the Org need-
	ed funds rather badly.

	In addition to working with mentally disturbed peo
ple or at least people who have been institutionalised at
one time, there is also some evidence that they have
worked with mentally deficient people. In Ability maga-
zine Hubbard once described the case of a person with
an I.Q. of seventy-three which is officially classified 
as a "moron" which he raised to eighty-eight which,
by the way, is still classified as a moron.

	Despite these cases and others, Scientology claims
that no one was ever harmed by Scientology or Dianetics.
They may be right when they say that Dianetics
Scientology did not cause these people's difficulties.
But letting an auditor, without proper medical or psy-
chological training, work with people who may have
had mental and physical disturbances would seem to be
a dangerous practice ----even if they claim to be treating
only the spirit. And having an auditor try to help people
by taking them back to the womb and their former lives
might not be as beneficial as having them talk out their
real problems in their real life. There are fourteen
stages of crawling before a child can actually walk; the
mind, too, develops in a somewhat hierarchical manner.

end page 182

and each of these steps must be stabilised somewhat before the 
person can safely move from one to another. Scientologists, encouraged 
by auditors whose qualifications are questionable, may move 
on to the next step before they are ready to handle it. And 
like walking before they can crawl ----they may fall flat on their 
psychical faces.

end page 183
blank page
end page 184


	CONCLUSION

In this book, I have tried to explain what Scientologists believe, 
what they do, how Scientology started and is expanding, and 
what happens to a person once he joins Scientology. One question 
I have not yet answered is the one that is most frequently asked 
of me -"Why do people join scientology?

	For one thing, they haven't read this book -or anything else 
that really tells them about the group. Most of the people who 
attend the introductory lecture or visit the Org out of curiosity' 
know nothing about: the people who joined and found that their 
emotional difficulties were being aggravated instead of alleviated; 
the people who spent thousands of dollars on Scientology' in 
one year; and the people who were harassed after they left. 
The Scientologists have done everything possible to keep these 
stories private. Not only have they sued and harassed those 
who have spoken out publicly against the group, but they have 
also tried to discredit them by sometimes "revealing" their 
supposed "crimes" in lurid and ludicrous detail.

	While the people who join Scientology usually have not had a 
chance to hear the Scientology critics, they also haven't heard 
the Scientologists themselves either. They do not really know 
what Scientology has to offer or what they are getting into. 
Those who join the group spend quite a bit of time in it before 
they find out what the Scientologists really believe, about the 
Scientology auditing process, or even that there is a Scientology 
au-

end page 185

diting process. That's because Scientologists are very evasive 
about their activities, usually answering (or avoiding questions 
about what Scientology is or what Scientologists do with such 
statements as "it's beautiful." "it'll make you free," and you'll have 
to try it for yourself." In fact, people have to try it for themselves 
for quite some time before they discover how deeply involved both
financially and emotionally they have become. Sometimes, by that time,
they are too deeply involved to leave. For the deeper a person goes 
into Scientology, the deeper he may have to go into Scientology. 
The more courses he takes, the more time he spends with Scientologists. 
The more time he spends with his new friends, the less time 
he spends with his old friends. If he leaves his job and goes 
to work for Scientology, as many do, he will soon be living and 
working only for Scientology, spending time only with Scientologists, 
and, as many people who have met them have discovered to their 
dismay, talking only about Scientology.

	But while this may explain why they stay there, it does not 
explain their initial attraction to the group. I think one 
thing that attracts people to the group is its ': appearance. 
It appears to be religious (ministers, clerical robes, etc.) 
It appears to be scientific ("Scientology"). It appears to 
be involved with technology' (the Emeter), It appears to have 
a philosophical body of knowledge (Hubbard's writing). Another 
thing that attracts them is the appearance of some of the people 
themself. Although by now it may seem that Scientologists have 
crazy stares, talk gobbledy-gook language, and act as if they're 
from outer space, the usual initial impression that most people 
acquire when they walk into an Org is that of people who are 
young, very attractive, and often, intelligent. Furthermore, 
many of these young people are unattached, so that single or 
lonely people are attracted to Scientology's social life. Some 
people join Scientology because they have already met their 
mate -a person who was or became a Scientologist. Some of the 
most ardent Scientologists admitted

Conclusion	187

that they initially joined or became interested in the group 
because their spouses or loved ones were Scientologists and 
the only way they could continue to see that person, or have 
something in common with them, was by joining the group themselves.

	In addition to those who join because they are seeking a mistress 
or a mate (a person), many people join because they are seeking 
a group to which they can really belong and be a part. Scientology 
is really just one big family. Hubbard, of course, is the father, 
and his wife plays the role of the mother. Scientologists are 
children who, if they're good, will be taken care of; if they're 
bad, and protest or question anything, father says they will 
be expelled from the family unit. Everything in their life is 
planned for them. There are certain courses for them to take 
and certain goals they must achieve in each course. If they 
disobey, or balk at any level, the punishments are rigidly set 
forth. Fortunately for the Scientologists, Hubbard treats his 
children somewhat kindly so long as they don't ever grow up 
and try to leave his home.

	Like any family group, or in fact any group, Scientology' fulfils 
some of the personal needs of its members. Someone with a strong 
desire to be respected by others can easily become a Scientology 
minister and be treated with the reverence generally accorded 
to men of the cloth. Someone with feelings of intellectual inferiority 
believes he can have his I.Q. raised by Scientology, and can, 
in fact, get a (Scientology) B.A. or a (Scientology) Doctorate 
degree. Someone who feels lonely has a place to go to and 
friends to see once he joins -
Scientology. Scientology brings meaning into his life where once 
there was only emptiness. The man I described in the first chapter 
who said that before he discovered Scientology he used to lie 
in bed and stare at the ceilings may not have been that different 
from some of the others who joined. But now that man has a place 
to go and something to do. People understand what he's saying 
because he's speaking their language. People look him

end page 187

straight in the eye when he talks to them People like him now 
because he has the same goals. More important-now he has some 
goals. He is working hard to bring everyone into Scientology 
so that together they can all save this world. It would be 
a laudable goal, too. except for one thing: no one is allowed 
to disagree with or criticise the manner in which the Scientologists 
think they're going to save the world. When all is said and 
done, what Scientology has to offer is merely their treatment 
or processing. They believe that it is our only road to salvation. 
The Scientologists like to say that there can't be two sides 
to the truth. Since they believe that they have found the truth, 
those who disagree with them are wrong. Perhaps. Sometimes when 
I am most skeptical about the efficacy of their methods, I think 
back to what one Scientologist said (using typically inflated 
figures) about their membership: "Fifteen million people can't 
be wrong." But history has often proven otherwise.

end page 188


(italics)
Many of the theories and teachings of scientology are so fanciful 
that the reaction of the normal individual on hearing them 
is generally one of amusement and incredulity... the impression 
may exist . . . that scientology is just harmless nonsense and 
its followers merely queer people, that its theories are foolish 
but funny and that not much harm is being done by allowing silly 
people to have their silly beliefs and carry on their silly 
practices. Such an attitude is welcomed by the scientologists, 
for it serves to obscure the real nature of scientology.
				----from the Australian Report

(italics)
Incredulity of other data and validity. This is our finest asset 
and gives us more protection than any other single asset. If 
certain parties thought we were real we would have infinitely 
more trouble... without a public incredulity we never would 
have gotten as far as we have. And now it's too late to be stopped. 
The protection was accidental but it serves us very well indeed. 
Remember that next time the ignorant scoff.
						---L. Ron Hubbard

end page  189

end
 
=================================================================
If this is a copyrighted work, you are acknowledging by receipt
of this document from FACTNet that on the basis of reasonable
investigation, you have not been to obtain a copy elsewhere at
a fair price, and that you are and will abide by the following
copyright warning. 

WARNING CONCERNING COPYRIGHT RESTRICTIONS: The copyright law of
the United States (Title 17, United States Code) governs the
making of photo copies or other reproductions of copyrighted
material. Under certain conditions specified by law, libraries
and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other
reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the
photocopy or reproduction is not to be "used for any purpose
other than private study, scholarship, or research." If a user
makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction
for purposes in excess of "fair use," that user may be liable
for copyright infringement. 

FACTNet reserves the right to refuse to accept an order for copying
or other duplication, or delivery of copied or duplicated material if,
in its judgment, fulfilment of the order would involve violation
of copyright law. 

-
                         F.A.C.T.Net, Inc.
         (Fight Against Coercive Tactics Network, Incorporated)
      a non-profit computer bulletin board and electronic library
            601 16th St. #C-217 Golden, Colorado 80401 USA
                          BBS 303 530-1942
                          FAX 303 530-2950
                       Office 303 473-0111

This document is part of an electronic lending library.  F.A.C.T.Net
does not sell documents, it only lends them according to the terms of
your library cardholder agreement with F.A.C.T.Net, Inc.
                                 -
                     CARD CATALOG ENTRY

DOS FILENAME OF TEXT FILE: E:\PCB\GEN\FILES\BOOKS\COOPER.TXT

DOS FILENAME OF IMAGE FILES:

ADMINISTRATIVE CODE:

SECURITY CODE:

DISTRIBUTION CODE:

DESCRIPTION FOR BBS FILE LISTING:

SORT TO:

CONTRIBUTOR:

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL:

NOTES:


For additional verification see the image files contained in the file
with same name and .ZIP extension or contributor of the document.

UPDATED ON:

UPDATED BY:
 
=================================================================




