                  HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
             Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

Cen O Con     HCO POLICY LETTER OF 16 FEBRUARY, 1969
Guardians Offices 
Intelligence 
PRO

                         Issue IV
                       Confidential

                     TARGETS, DEFENSE

It is quite obvious that Scientology has to maintain a defense
perimeter.  In 19 years of continual attacks it is obvious that Dianetics
then Scientology must have lain across some concerted plan by another older
group to do something else.

To analyze what the others intended, it is only necessary to review what
Dianetics and Scientology intended to do and assume the reverse.

Experience has shown that defense is only effective when one sorties
or attacks.

When we did not give a lot of time and energy and funds to knocking out
real enemies we came close to losing the lot.

The errors we have made have been

1.  Defending only.

2.  Defending on Scn ground.

3.  Being reasonable and assigning mild motives to the enemy.

4.  Failing to attack early and hard.

5.  Undervaluing the broad social value of Scn.

6.  Individuating from other similar organizations.

7.  Not learning enemy tactics and using and bettering them.

8.  Failing to heavily contest for public opinion and public media.

9.  Failing to identify the enemy early and hit him hard.

    A.  Our best defense is that we are sincere, that we are effective 
        and that we commit no crimes.

    B.  Our next best defense line was being sure the public knew 
        we were a Church.

    C.  Our next best was being quick and able and using very 
        fast comm lines.

We must not repeat the errors of 1 to 9.

And we must reinforce A, B and C.



                          TARGETS

The vital targets on which we must invest most of our time are:

T1.  Depopularizing the enemy to a point of total obliteration.

T2.  Taking over the control or allegiance of the heads or 
     proprietors of all news media.

T3.  Taking over the control or allegiance of key political figures.

T4.  Taking over the control or allegiance of those who monitor 
     international finance and shifting them to a less precarious 
     finance standard.

T5.  Generally revitalizing the societies in which we are operating.

T6.  Winning overwhelming public support.

T7.  Use all other similar groups as allies.


These, of course, are very long range targets.  But it is what must be
done to continue the longevity of our organizations.

Our only justification for doing these things is that Scientology is
the only game where everyone wins.

The names and connections, at this time, of the bitterly opposing
enemy are:

1.  Psychiatry and psychology (not medicine).

2.  The heads of news media who are also directors of psychiatric front groups.

3.  A few key political figures in the fields of "mental health" and
education.

4.  A decline of monetary stability caused by the current planning of
bankers who are also directors of psychiatric front organizations
would make us unable to function.

5.  The cold war is being fought on home ground and has an apparent target 
of degrading western society to a point where we are finding it difficult 
to operate; a degraded society can be swallowed up easily by an enemy.

6.  The public is somewhat sympathetic already but in a democracy trials
are by public opinion.  To win all the way, the bulk of public opinion
must be at the level of love us ... hate the enemy.

7.  Many groups exist with similar aims.  They need organizing and uniting.

At first glance the targets T1 to T7 are a pretty big handful.  But
we have to start somewhere.  And we might as well start in the direction
of the total target as per T1 - T7.

Nearly everything we are doing is already tending in that direction
T1 - T7.

We have the advantage of new vital technology and a monopoly on it. 
New technologies are the things which made progress.




We do not have a Utopian dream or a planned society.  We are trying
to survive.  Our theory is that if individuals become more honest and less
harassed they will be capable of building a better society.

The fact is we would have gone along happily minding our own
business.  But these fantastic and continuing attacks have pushed us
more and more into developing a technology and direction of defense. 

We now have a lot of experience.  We have been hurt, we have been
held back.  It has cost us millions.  Normal channels of the society have
let us down.  Therefore we are on our own. Obviously.  To our actual and
factual view, the West is prostrate and near helpless and the rest of the
world is a big slave camp.

If we don't do anything about it we and everyone else are
gone

So we may as well have a go.

If we unite all groups into an interplay and use all forces extant
and channel them we have a very big chance of winning.

Therefore from an appreciation of all data to hand and experience it
seems that T1 to T7 is beneficial.  Things that don't are a relative waste
of time.

If we, doing our jobs, doing no wrong, breaking no laws, are having
trouble operating, what about the rest of the West?  We're not the only
ones in hot water.  In fact we are probably in far better shape than many
many other groups and for sure in better shape than other individuals.

So we can and must take the lead.

And we ourselves must develop many leaders.

We may as well start now and push all we are doing in defensive actions
into T1 to T7.



                      L. RON HUBBARD
                          Founder


LRH:bw 
Copyright (c) 1969 
by L. Ron Hubbard 
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

