            INTELLIGENCE SPECIALIST TRAINING ROUTINE - TR L

Purpose:  To train the student to give a false statement with good
TR-1.  To train the student to outflow false data effectively.

Position:  Same as TR-1.

Commands:  Part l "Tell me a lie".  Command given by coach. 
Part 2 interview type 2 WC by coach.

Training Stress:  In Part 1 coach gives command, student originates
a falsehood. Coach flunks for out TR 1 or TR O.  In Part 2 coach
asks questions of the student on his background or a subject.
Student gives untrue data of a plausible sort that the student
backs up with further explanatory data upon the coach [sic]
further questions.  The coach flunks for out TR O and TR 1,
and for student fumbling on question answers.  The student
should be coached on a gradient until he/she can lie facily.

Short example:

Coach:   Where do you come from?

Student: I come from the Housewives Committee on Drug Abuse.

Coach:   But you said earlier that you were single.

Student: Well, actually I was married but am divorced.  I have
2 kids in the suburbs where I am a housewife, in fact I'm a
member of the P.T.A.

Coach:   What town is it that you live in?

Student: West Brighton.

Coach:   But there is no public school in West Brighton.

Student: I know.  I send my children to school in Brighton,
and that's where I'm a P.T.A. member.

                                    2


Coach:   Oh, and who is the Chairman there?

Etc.



   TR 3 Int [Intelligence] -

Purpose:  To teach a Student Int Officer to get the answer to a
question without startling a target.  To teach him not to be
startled by suspicion and Accusation [sic].

Position: Student & Coach facing each other.

Commands: No fixed Commands.  Use "Start", "Flunk" & "That's It" as in
other TR's.

Training Stress: There are two parts to the drill.


(a)  The Coach assumes an identity such as Director of a Drug Firm, or
     Psychiatrist, or PR Man.  Coach also picks a question that the student
     must get answered such as "What is my address", "What is my brothers
     name", "Have I ever had any connection to FDA".  Coach gives the
     student a couple of minutes to mock up a suitable cover. Then the
     drill begins with the student being the interviewer who must get the
     question answered.  Flunks are given for being too pushy.  Failing to
     let coach itsa (a silent int. Officer Invites Itsa), for making the
     Coach Suspicous. Coach gets gradiently tougher & evasive.

(b)  The coach picks an identity.  The student picks a question as above.
     Flunks are given as in Part (a). If the coach guesses which question
     the student is trying to get answered (coaches don't go looking for the
     question but if it sticks out like a sore thumb then Flunk it).  Coach
     is more evasive in this one & flunks are given for creating suspicion.
     After the student does this well the coach throws in accusative
     comments, such as "Who are you working for?"  "You're a Scientologist"
     "What are you, a Detective?".   Flunks are given for failing to handle
     & for becoming startled.

This drill is passed when the student can do part (b) of this drill
flawlessly.


TR 3 INT WITH BULLBAITING.

Purpose:  To teach a student Int Officer to improvise and maintain
          cover when confronted with something unexpected.
                                 3


Position: Student and coach facing each other.

Commands: No fixed commands.  Use "Start", "Flunk"
          and "That's it" as in other TRs.




                            SITUATION TR
                               
Once the normal reporter TR's [sic] have been completed
Rod & I worked on new drill - Handling the Situation. 
(This is now done before 5c)

In this we sat opposite each other as before, but the drill
was to handle the 'situation'.  This was basically a bad
scene, in which something very unpleasant and catastrophic had
happened.  Normally it was the sort of thing that one would
wish to keep out of the papers.

Examples - all big, dramatic events, reeking of entheta and all
bad news:-

(a)  You are told a yacht called Apollo, registered in the name of
     LRH has blown up and sunk 10 miles off Gibraltar.

(b)  You are told the OES WW and the LRH Comm WW have been stopped
     at London Airport with 50,000 pounds in cash and 2 lbs of heroin on them,
     trying to leave the U.K.

(c)  You are told that Quentin and Diana H. have been kidnapped by
     the Mafia in Los Angeles.

d)   You are told that the chief witness in the Manson trial,
     Mrs. L.X. has arrived in London, claiming to be LRH's
     illegitimate daughter.

(e)  You are told a doctor in Northern England has been criticized
     by a coroner at an inquest for his use of Dianetics on his
     patients, one of whom died.

(f)  You are told that a senior member of the Gdn. Office WW
     is in the offices of the News of the World at 11 a.m. one
     Saturday morning, dictating a series of six weekly articles
     on the 'real lowdown of life in the Gdn. Office'.

Now the aim of the drill is to terminatedly handle the situation: in other
words keep us out of the Press, keep the journalists quiet, protect us from the
situation with honour [sic] - kill the story.

We did the drill by giving each other the situation, a couple of minutes to
think about it, and then handle.

                           4


Stress:

Coach picks an identity.  The student mocks up a cover & picks a question he
wants answered.  The student interviews the coach and must get his question
answered.

The coach throws in startling accusations and suspicions and the student must
handle and maintain his cover.  Coach starts off on a gradient giving the
student wins.

Flunks are given for being startled and long comm lags, for failure to give
an answer and smooth over the suspicions of the coach.

This is passed when the student can give plausible answers and improvise with
ease, so his cover remains intact, and can get an answer to his question.

Reporting: Set up is done as per TR 3 Int (b).  Coach is not
          tough but does give the student many facts.  Student departs after
          terminating the interview.  And writes a report on it.
          Particularly noting whether he got his question answered.
          The report should include all facts given, but not be
          overly detailed and include a description of the coach.
          Flunks are given for, false reports, opinions, evaluation,
          omitted data, and any other outpoint found in the report
          not the interview.




                                        Mo Budlong
                                        DG Info WW

