RATIONALE: sci.physics.relativity

Subjects related to special and general relativity are frequently
discussed in a number of news groups but there is not yet a
dedicated group for these topics despite the large volume of posts.
Sci.physics is the most appropriate group for most such discussions
at the moment and the Physics FAQ already covers many questions on
relativity. Sci.astro also hosts discussions on some related topics
in astronomy and its FAQ also has a section on relativity.

But relativity threads often get cross-posted to other groups
where they are sometimes regarded as off-topic. Even in sci.physics
and sci.astro the speculative nature of some discussions is regarded
as more suitable for alt.sci.physics.new-theories. The problem is
significant because of the volume and longevity of some of those
threads.

Sci.physics.relativity would provide a dedicated forum for the discussion
of the special and general theories of relativity where speculative
ideas, as well as conventional theory, may be discussed.

END RATIONALE.


CHARTER: sci.physics.relativity

Appropriate postings would include, but not be limited to:

 1.  Queries regarding special and general relativity
 2.  How to resolve relativity paradoxes
 3.  Black holes, worm holes and singularities
 4.  Big Bang and other cosmological models of space-time
 5.  Equivalence of mass and energy
 6.  The speed of light and gravity
 7.  Time dilation, space contraction, redshifts
 8.  Causality, and faster than light travel
 9.  The large and small scale structure of space-time
10.  Discussion of the scope and validity of relativity
11.  Viability of alternative theories to relativity
12.  Experimental tests of Relativity
13.  Gravitational waves
14.  Theories and concepts which take us beyond relativity

The news group sci.physics.relativity will be open to
discussion on all levels. It will accept talk about
alternative theories and other controversial discussions
about relativity which would be outside the charter of
most other sci newsgroups, as well as more mainstream
discussion on physics as described by Einstein's theory
of relativity and modern research to develop more unified
theories combining relativity and quantum mechanics. This
reflects the kind of threads which are now popular in usenet
on the subject of relativity.

The FAQ introduction will advise caution against cross posting to
other groups.

